---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Port MC-Java to internal BridgePoint parser - Phase 2 Pre-builder.
### xtUML Project Design Note

1. Abstract
-----------
The xtUML Editor in BridgePoint is going open source.  We need to split the source code so that Verifier and perhaps other parts can remain closed source.

2. History
----------
None.

3. Document References
----------------------
[1] ClearQuest DEI dts0100919690 - Separate the open source code from the closed source code.

[2] git:internal\doc-internal\notes\dts0100919690\dts0100919690dnt-1.md

[3] git:internal\MC-Java\doc\old-new-mapping.txt

[4] git issue #46 - Parser includes enclosing single quotes in text phrases.

4. Background
-------------
As part of the move to open source, we must migrate away from dependency on the BridgePoint generator parser. This note describes the work to port MC-Java to use the internal BridgePoint parser.

5. Requirements
---------------
5.1 Eliminate dependency on the Generator parser.

6. Analysis
-----------
See [1,2].

7. Design
---------
With this work, we leverage the work done in [2]. bp.core and bp.canvas have their project files modified to use sql data emitted by the MC-Java pre-builder.

7.1 Ooa schema

In the past, MC-Java used a hand maintained schema. The action language subsystems in this schema are different than those in the current model against which the BridgePoint parser runs.
We deprecate this schema and move to using one generated from the BridgePoint main stream meta-model.

7.2 Schema gen

To support 6.1, this MC-Java utility is modified to generate a usable MC-Java schema from the latest meta-model.

7.3 MC-Java

The move to a generated schema requires extensive changes to MC-Java. 

7.3.1 Use UNIQUE_ID for identifiers

Previously, MC-Java used string values for identifiers. MC-Java is changed throughout to use BridgePoints built in UNIQUE_ID type. This shows as numerous changes from using the "${some_id_value}" to simply assigning or using the id directly in an expression.

7.3.2 Use new associations

The modern meta-model adds several associations which replace the need to use select from instances where statements to locate build population instances. MC-Java is modified in numerous places to use the select related by idiom instead.
In other places, MC-Java used strings containing symbol names. These are replaced by navigations across new associations that provide improved model factoring.

7.3.3 Assign to Attribute and Assign to Transient obsoleted

The modern meta-model no longer has Assign to Attribute or Assign to Transient statement subtypes. BridgePoint now supports assignment to a great many different targets, including structure members and instance handle attributes. Accordingly, these were replaced by the more generic Assign to Member statement, which just assigns one Value to another. MC-Java is modified to use this new structure in all places where it makes assignments.
This does not mean that MC-Java now supports instance references or structured data types, support for those would need to be added and tested. It is important to note in particular that complex types used in meta-model elements would require enhancements to the persistence infrastructure. This change does mean that support for instance references and structured data types will be much simpler to add in the future.

7.3.4 Parenthesized Expression obsoleted

In the modern parser, this value subtype does not exist. Instead, the parentheses are inferred from the nesting of binary operation values. MC-Java is modified to use this new structure. Accordingly, the V_PEX schema element is no longer present and handling for it in MC-Java is removed.

7.3.5 Block nesting

The built in parser organizes statement blocks differently than the generator parser fragment processor. The MC-Java block_xlate archetype function is changed to recurse differently to match this different ordering.

7.3.6 java.arc

Perhaps surprisingly, the root archetype, java.arc has quite few modifications. The only one not covered under the categories above is that it is modified to use a root package setting in the project file. Without this, MC_java attempts to generate code for all models found in a project which is not usually desirable.

7.3.7 Progress feedback

In the past, MC-Java proceeded for long periods of time without providing any progress feedback. Additional feedback is now provided as each class of statement is processed.

7.3.8 Value and Event subsystems

The modern meta-model uses an extensively renumbered association set, particularly in the Value and Event subsystems. MC-Java is reworked to use the new association numbers. The mapping of old to new associations is documented in [3].

7.4 Build Server

After this work we will be relying on MC-Java pre-builder to provide the build time instance populations for the OAL, Core and Canvas projects.

7.4.1 Install and/or BridgePoint Executables

If the build server does not already have BridgePoint executables installed and on the path, this must be done.

7.4.2 Modify the build scripts

Modify the build scripts to build OAL, Core and Canvas projects using the BridgePoint CLI feature.
 
8. Design Comments
------------------
8.1 Differences in Parser behavior

The BridgePoint parser has several slight differences of behavior that MC-Java must accommodate.

8.1.1 Cardinality case

The generator parser set these values to "MANY", "ONE" or "ANY". The built in parser uses the same strings but sets them lower case.

8.1.2 Single quote handling and Text Phrases

If the BridgePoint parser encounters a text phrase enclosed in single quotes, it includes those quotes in the cached symbol data. This is different to the generator parser behavior. The commercial model compilers use a substitution string, "s/'''/'/g" to get rid of this unwanted data prior to compilation. This is a defective solution, since it causes any string ending in a single quote to be incorrectly translated.
The parser behavior is defective and should be modified to strip the enclosing single quotes before caching the symbol. The substitution command should be removed from all pre-processing scripts, prior to a field report. An issue is raised [4] to fix the parser behavior.

8.2 Type handling

During development, it was seen that MC-Java failed silently when failing to find expected data type data. MC-Java was enhanced to provide improved error messaging when types are not found as expected.

8.3 Enumerated type handling

This was modified to work in the modern BridgePoint meta-model.

8.4 Logical expression nesting

There were a few places where logical expressions were not fully nested within parentheses. This has been found to be a source of error in the commercial model compilers, so as a precaution, logical expressions are modified to be fully parenthesized everywhere, even if no defective behavior was previously observed.

9. Unit Test
------------
All existing JUnits must pass, both on the modified host and on a BridgePoint instance generated by the modified host.

10. MC-Java code split road map
-------------------------------
This section describes in work breakdown form, the future steps needed to complete the code split project.

10.1 Migrate models and MC-Java to Generic packages.

Moving MC-Java to Generic Packages should be straightforward. However, there are more than 80 references to S_DOM in the BridgePoint translation infrastructure. Every one must be visited and modified in order to complete this transition.

10.2 Strip Model Verifier support OAL from the meta-model prior to publication

We already have a branch in which this work was carried out. The delta for this can serve as a detailed list of the necessary changes. However, we need to add this support back in at the same time but in a privately maintained project. Work breakdown for this is included below.

10.2.1 Add support for inter-project references to MC-Java

10.2.2 Add extension point support for providing instance factory plugins

After this work is done, core will have default behavior to instantiate the non executable statement and value instances. When Verifier support is licensed, it overrides the default factory behavior to instantiate its own, execution capable subtypes.

10.2.3 Add support for true inheritance to xtUML

Nothing less than full inheritance can support this plugin factory strategy.

10.2.4 Create OAL subsystem mirrors in a new bp.debug.core project.

This is a small task to ready a new project to receive the executable capability as a separately deployable plugin.

10.2.5 Create true inheritance counterparts for each statement and value subtype.

Quite a big task, enumerated by the branch already in existence.

10.2.6 Strip the Verifier support code from the ooaofooa and paste it into the new subtype counterpart.

Again quite a long task, but both 10.2.5 and 10.2.6 are quite formulaic in nature, so this work could be delegated to the wider team. As a guide to the magniture of these tasks, it is estimated that this work is not nearly as widespread or as fundamental as the original work needed to migrate to Generic Packages. Again, the existing branch can provide detailed breakdown and input to effort calibration. 

10.3 Other code split requirements

It has been discussed that we need to protect the parser technology. This is much more difficult to achieve and I am at this time unclear what the latest Marketing and Management views are on this topic.

End
---

