---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corporation

---

# Port MC-Java to internal BridgePoint parser - Phase 1 Pre-builder.
### xtUML Project Design Note


1. Abstract
-----------
The xtUML Editor in BridgePoint is going open source.  We need to split the source code so that Verifier and perhaps other parts can remain closed source.

2. History
----------
None.

3. Document References
----------------------
[1] ClearQuest DEI dts0100919690 - Separate the open source code from the closed source code.

4. Background
-------------
As part of the move to open source, we must migrate away from dependency on the BridgePoint generator parser. This note describes a necessary prerequisite step needed to prepare the development environment for that change.

5. Requirements
---------------
5.1  Allow optional specification of a split point when emitting models for translation.
     
5.2  Do not emit a fresh model file if the current one is up to date.

5.3  Allow a model from another project to be used as source for translation.
     
5.4  Allow the root package for model export to be specified.

5.5  Allow parsing to be limited to a subset of the package hierarchy.

6. Analysis
-----------
Why not use the standard pre-builder?

There is already an existing pre-builder infrastructure. Why can't we use that? Traditionally, the BridgePoint team have been much more creative with using the BridgePoint generator than has any customer. As a result, there are a number of very specialized behaviors that the MC-Java/BridgePoint build process places on the pre-builder.

6.1    Because of memory size limitations imposed by the BridgePoint verifier,
         we need to build the model in two phases. The current pre-builder does
         not support this.

6.2    The existing build process also derives multiple output projects from
         the same source model. Specifically, the OAL parser project uses the
         core ooaofooa model to derive the parser validation source. Again, the
         existing pre-builder infrastructure does not support this. In addition, the
         OAL parser project only requires to parse the OAL present under a
         single package.

6.3    Traditionally, BridgePoint source models have been domain based. We
         are going to move away from this once we are no longer reliant on the
         BridgePoint generator parser. However, even when we do, our current
         build process relies on being able to translate just a subset of the
         models present in a given project. The existing pre-builder emits all
         models in a project concatenated.

6.4    Finally, the existing pre-builder runs every time a project is built. For
         most models this is acceptable. However, the BridgePoint source
         model is so large that there is a very significant parse time incurred. In
         addition, continually rewriting the output model file causes cyclic
         dependencies in our ant scripts with the result that the build never
         completes.

We therefore need to create our own internal pre-builder which will provide the needed features.

7. Design
---------

A new JavaExportBuilder class is added to bp.internal.tools project. This class meets the requirements above as follows:

7.1  Specify a split point

Unlike our BridgePoint ant file which specifies translation in two phases to avoid the Generator memory limits, the pre-builder is invoked only once. This means that we need to emit two separate model files that can then be processed by the ant scripts. Although we have never previously leveraged this capability, the buildspec element of each .project file allows parameters to be specified for each builder. The new builder class looks for a SplitAtPackage argument. If one is found, this is used to control which of the two files a given package will be emitted to. If no SplitAtPackage is found a single file is emitted. Note that this setting affects only what action language is emitted. All structural model elements are emitted to both files. This mirrors what we currently do with oal.pei files.

7.2  Don't overwrite up to date model output file.

This makes the pre-builder act like a good make toolchain citizen, preventing unnecessary processing during a build. The pre-builder shall find the oldest output file and notes its timestamp. It shall then visit all xtuml files in the models folder of the specified source project. If any xtuml file is found to be younger than the oldest output file, then all output files are freshened. This change is made to AbstractExportBuilder, so the new behavior will be customer visible after the next release.

7.3  Specify source project

This requirement is also met using an argument in the .project buildSpec element. In this case, the new argument is SourceProject. If it is absent, the current project is used as a source for the models. If present, the specified project is used.

7.4  Specify the root package for translation

Another parameter, RootPackageName, is used to call out the package to be used for translation. Structural model elements in packages outside this package are not emitted.

7.5  Limit parsing to a subset of the package tree

Finally another parameter, ParseOnly, is used to limit the packages that will be parsed for export. This argument can be multi valued, using a comma separated list.

8. Design Notes
-----------------
8.1 Single quote handling

It was found when testing this by building bridgepoint, that we need to remove escaped single quotes. This is done in existing builds by invoking the xtumlmc_build script with the cleanse_for_bridgepoint argument. This is handled in a perl script which does a lot of other things that are not required for MC-Java. Instead, SingleQuoteFilterOutputStream, a new single purpose java filter class, is created and inserted into the output stream. Some cascade changes are needed to change export method signatures to accept a generic OutputStream argument instead of the overly specific ByteArrayOutputStream that was previously expected.

8.2 Changes to the internal.tools plugin

This project is host to the JavaExportBuilder class. It did not previously export a builder, so various changes are made to allow it to perform this role.

8.2.1 Change ToolsPlugin to extend AbstractActivator. This allows the plugin to export the builder capability.

8.2.2 Create a MCJavaNature class. A builder is associated with a nature. This new nature declaration fulfills this requirement.

8.2.3 Classpath
The classpath is extended to depend on io.mdl so that we can use the functionality in that package to serialize the in memory model.

8. Work Required
----------------
Fully specified in the design.

9. Acceptance Test
------------------
Note that no changes to existing internal build processes are made with these changes. What we are doing here is to insert the capability into the host development environment. We will turn this capability on with the next, much larger promotion.

After these changes, we must test that we can still self-build BridgePoint. All existing JUnits must pass, both on the modified host and on a BridgePoint instance generated by the modified host.

Finally, we must run all Model Compiler unit tests to assure that we have not caused regression to any of those products.

End
---
