---

This work is licensed under the Creative Commons CC0 License

---

# Analysis of text editor cross references
### xtUML Project Review Minutes

Reviewed:  https://github.com/travislondon/bridgepoint/blob/7738_automated_tests_mars/doc-bridgepoint/notes/7964_analysis_of_text_editor_cross_references/7964_analysis_of_text_editor_cross_references.ant.md

c4751e3a5468a5b02b398690bbf4cc60ee488b3f

Present:  Cort, Bob, Travis, Keith

<pre>

-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment
x- 01  min   CDS  4.1      I am not sure refactoring would need “triggering” when using a cross-reference approach.
            change to:  ... Renaming a referred to element in Bridgepoint shall automatically keep the elements in OAL consistent.
x- 02  min   CDS  5.1      port is missing
x- 03  min   bob  5.1      please call out where this list came from
x- 04  min   bob  3        This background is not quite right.  The work WAS promoted [2][3], and functionality was removed, but not all the changes [4]. Please describe this, and also describe why it was removed.
x- 05  min   bob  2[7]     Please write the full name and acronym here so people see what it means 1 time before using it in the document.
x- 06  min   bob  7        you should not have to re-type the list here, you should jsut be able to refer to the list created earlier in the document.  This assures the information is in only 1 place.
x- 07  min   bob  6.1      Note that this is really not just a matter of merging anymore. If you go look and see you will find the amount of chaneg is such that it really will need to be redone, merge will not be useful.
x- 08  min   bob  5.2      "reference's files"  typo
  TRL: This is not a typo the references own the file.
x- 09  min   cds  5.2      describe actiion_semantics vs action_semantics_internal was action_semantics_internal interoduced with this work?
x- 10  min   cds  5.2      in the recatables work, how was the "save part" done? Was it in ui.text, was a parser used to re-embed the IDs? This may end up disqualify 6.1 approach (if a seperate parser was used)
x- 11  min   SKB  5.3      Can this JDK approach be taken from the keyletters in the property view? This question is concerned about where the JDK approach could be tied into the various places we edit from (canvas,ME, properties, and generic shortcut rename (f2)). The note should consider these places.
x- 12  min   CDS  xxx      Can activities be rendered in the editor buffer (like rtf, html, etc), how?
                      answer this: stylized editor
x- 13  min   SKB  5.1   typos:   "Signal" should be "Interface Signal"
"Signal Parameter" should be "Interface Signal Parameter"
Interface (i.e. name of Interface) is missing from the list

</pre>
   
No major observations, a re-review is not required.


End
---
