---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Interface Verifier with SVX 
### xtUML Project Review Minutes

Reviewed:  https://github.com/xtuml/internal/blob/Review-629397_21-09/doc-internal/notes/dts0100629397/dts0100629397dnt.md  08d54f50cde2fbf4730331818a9ee32a70783a7f  
Present:  Keith, Nehad, Bob, Campbell, Heba, Dean

<pre>

-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment
_- 01  min   KB   5.2      change "marking" > "properties"
_- 02  maj   BM   7.1      the svx.jar is likely to get stale often.  We need to consider how we will manage this on a go-forward basis   
_- 03  min   BM   7.2      Note that the default value is "false"
_- 04  min   BM   7.3.3.1  Call out the name of the file
_- 05  min   BM   7.3.3.1  "value: The a magnitude..." > "value: The magnitude of the time as enumerated steps in increments of 1000"
_- 06  min   CM   7.3.3.1  Under table columns: leave the names, but remove the descriptions.  Add a cross reference to the SVX documentation where they are defined
_- 07  min   BM   7.3.4.1  "of the SVX" > "from the SVX"
_- 08  min   BM   7.3.4    Add names of the files here
_- 09  maj   BM   general  Maybe we don't want to save it to .settings because we probably want these files to be stored in CM.  Is there a better place?
_- 10  min   KB   7.4.1    "opration" > "operation"
_- 11  min   KB   general 

This  Channel : "channel_name" that is associated with the port : 
"port_Name" has timed out and value of 0.0 will be returned. Try Increasing 
the Big End Time

change to:

The Port/Channel (portname/channelname) has timed out. A value of 0.0 will be returned. Try increasing the Big End Time.

_- 12  min   CM   7.5.3  There is a list level typo/formatting issue under "These consumers/generators"
_- 13  min   KB   7.5.3  "The channel : that is associated with the port : was initialized successfully" > "The Port/Channel (portname/channelname) was initialized successfully."
_- 14  maj   CM   10.1   This a lot more unit testing that needs to be added for this to be included and productized in mainline BP
_- 15  maj   HK   general  The SVX API is being updated, this code needs to be updated to the latest API before promotion.
_- 16  maj   BM   general  Even when productized, we may want a flag to hide/disable this SVX interface, preferences, etc...


</pre>
   
Major observations, a re-review is required.
 
End
---
