---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Take advantage of ant during our build process
### xtUML Project Review Minutes

Reviewed:  https://github.com/xtuml/internal/blob/259_parallel_gen/doc-internal/notes/259/259_int.md
             9dd5ac201ad031d4aa1e268e24c2a7f6171f2e0b
Present:  Keith,Cort,Bob

<pre>

-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment
x- 01  min   bob  2[2]&2[[3]    Provide a description
x- 02  min   bob  5.1      Note that this is being introduced by 2[2]
x- 03  maj   bob  8        xtumlmc_build.pl lives in the mc repository.   
                           We should call out that the original must be promoted if there was a change.      
						   
x- 04  min   bob  8        We should take this opportunity to remove the need for PT_HOME
                           if possible
x- 05  min   bob  8        Why did xtumlmc_build change?
x- 06  min   bob  8       Why did you introduce xtumlmc_gen_erate.pl instead of just modifying the existing xtumlmc_gen_erate perl script?
x- 07  min   bob  8      Perhaps it is time to deliver internal.tools.  LETs deliver it, or 
                         understand why we can't
                        
x- 08  min   TRL  7.1      There is a dependency issue that need to be fixed.  After following the test, build
 automatically caused a rebuild
x- 09  min   TRL  8      Code changes need to be updated.
x- 10  min   TRL  8      There is an easy opportunity to run parallel in the bp.als too  
x- 11  min   TRL  8      Travis thinks there may be a memory leak in the bp.core build.  Talk to him about it.

</pre>
   
Major observations were recorded, a re-review is required.

Note:  The author,Keith, was away when we reviewed this.  We are going to go ahead and
       promote because the work that led to this change, [2], is ready for promotion and we
	   want to get it in now.   Keith will follow up and we will have another review before
	   we close this issue.
<pre>

x- 12 min TRL General      See if we can gain any benefit from splitting the ui.canvas java target into multiple parts and add the parallel task.
   UPDATE: Canvas build takes 1 min 30 seconds.  We have decided to not work on trying to speed it up.
_- 13 min RM  General      Check if new xtumlmc_build.exe fixes ordering issue with MC-Java/ooa_schema.sql
_- 14 min TRL General      Check to see what the output of ooaofooa.sql in bp.core is correct now (perl executable)
x- 15 min RM  Unit Tests   Add test that makes sure there are no dirty files after the clean build
x- 16 min RM  Code Changes Change branch name to the promotion-2 branch.

</pre>

End
---
