---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Port MC-Java to internal BridgePoint parser - Phase 2 New Build process.
### xtUML Project Review Minutes

Reviewed:  https://github.com/xtuml/internal/blob/master/doc-internal/notes/dts0100919690/dts0100919690int-2.md  097cb6010f030416515ed61389166a4fd6ff35d3   
Present:  Keith, Campbell, Travis

<pre>

-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment

Implementation note review:
_-  01  min  TL  References  [2] points at Issues 2 and should be 35
 

Code review:
o- 01  min  KB    cherry pick the JRE change to use same JRE as workspace
x- 02  min  KB    open an issue to add finer granularity to java pre-build output
x- 03  min  KB    there is a conflict on bp.als/generate.xml.  We think this is due to the change to the clean_sql target.  Back out this change.
x- 04  min  KB    In several plug-ins (bp.core, ui.canvas, etc), we want to add the gen/ folder and add a .gitignore that ignores the code_generation folder
x- 05  min  KB    In bp.core/.project, try removing the MCJavaNature and see if it still works.  Maybe remove from bp.internal.tools as well
x- 06  min  KB    Raise an issue against the model compiler pre-builder infrastructure to make it robust in the face of missing settings in build_settings.properties
x- 07  min  TL    Look into why ooa_schema.sql is getting marked dirty if the metamodel has not changed.
x- 08  min  TL    print statement on line 223 of statement.inc references incorrect line number.
x- 09  min  RM    Cardinality must be lower case in archetypes, maybe document this.   
x- 10  min  TL    Either raise issue or determine if we are using the right text phrases (preceeds vs succeeds)   
x- 11  min  RM    Comment select from instances where to make it clear what the function is generated (line 1044)   
x- 12  min  RM    Note should call out why we cannot use a unit test comparing generated code from both versions   

Additional comments from read-through review (not yet full observations):
1. In arch_utils.inc at line 694, why is the else clause removed?
2. Same file at line 719, why are the text phrases switched?
3. build.xml, we now call xtumlmc_cleanse_for_BP shouldn't the file be cleansed by the client passing in the source sql data?
4. Isn't ooa_schema.sql generated now?
5. schema_gen.arc, for my understanding, did generator add the Order attribute for ordered elements?  If not why is it now added?  Also where does this list come from?  For instance why is R_REL getting the  Order addition?
6. value.inc same comment as 1, V_PEX removal.
The above additional comments did not reach the status of formal review observations as they were dealt with as pre-review comments. Documents were enhanced as required to record explanations where necessary.  

Note on Obs. 1. This was actually done in a branch co-promoted with this one.
Note on Obs. 5. MCJavaNature removed from core project file, build proceeds as normal. However, the Nature cannot be removed since the Eclipse infrastructure expects pre-builders to be associated with one. The other MC's all declare a Nature. 

</pre>
   
No major observations, a re-review is not required.
 
End
---
