---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Honor three way flag at all times
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes the changes required to address an issue where the compare
editor does not believe the compare is three way.

2. Document References
----------------------  
[1] Issues 232, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/232  
[2] CQ Issue: dts0101056727 - Inconsistent classification of differences in the
    structural and compare part of the merge tool

3. Background
-------------
The customer has found an issue where the tool treats a three way merge as a two
way merge.  In this case they see incorrect icons for the elements in the
structural view.  In the structural view the customer is seeing changes as
outgoing additions when in fact they are incoming additions.  In a two way merge
all changes are considered outgoing as there is no common ancestor to base
direction on.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Three way merge shall be considered when there is an ancestor

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1 Refresh three way flag for differencer

The differencer is only recreated when a new input is given.  This is the only
time the three way flag is considered.  In git the input for the compare editor
is a tree of files changed.  In this case we only get to set the three way flag
for the differencer on the first file opened.  In the compare window you can
change files that are being compared, this results in the three way flag
remaining the same even though eclipse tells us that the next file is three way.
To address this a new method is added to TreeDifferencer, setIsThreeWay().  This
method is then called by ModelContentMergeViewer and
TreeDifferenceContentProvider when the differencer is refreshed.

5.2 Exclude direction when dealing with a two way merge

During a two way merge there is no way to determine direction.  In this case the
tool was simply adding the left direction which does not match what eclipse
does.  The code in TreeDifferencer.getDifferenceType() is changed to removed the
direction flag.  This results in + or - icons only with no direction, if there
is just a change no overlay is added to the root icon.  To handle this in the
structural view the TreeDifferenceLabelProvider class is modified to check for
the CHANGE type and simply use the root icon if true.

5.3 Showing first element difference in file

In the git tree compare, where the compare window contains a file/folder
structure only the first file opened will navigate to the first change in the
xtUML compare editor.  This is related to the fact that the same structure
viewer created for the whole compare (all files included) is used.  The code
that selects and reveals the first difference is moved to the inputChanged
method.  This allows the first difference to be selected for any file opened in
the compare window.

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------

7. Unit Test
------------
_- Run compare.test tests   
_R All tests pass

_- Add the EATF model repository to the Git repositories view   
   - This model can be found here: \\wv\dfs\bridgepoint\field_data\dts0101056727\eatf_design.rar
   - This model shall be deleted after promotion   
_- Import the eatf project   
_- Check out the dev_for_test branch   
_- Make sure it is reset using reset hard   
_- Merge the ref_for_test branch   
_R Conflicts are hit   
_- Open the Merge Tool   
_- Double click the eatf/models/eatf/ComponentsLibrary/EATF/eatfImpl/   
   PacketSwitchLeg/PackageSwitchLeg.xtuml difference
_R There are two differences in the structure view that show as incoming (blue)   
   additions

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 232

<pre>

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.model.compare/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/model/compare/
    TreeDifferencer.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.model.compare/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/model/compare/
    contentmergeviewer/ModelContentMergeViewer.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.model.compare/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/model/compare/
    providers/TreeDifferenceContentProvider.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.model.compare/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/model/compare/
    providers/TreeDifferenceLabelProvider.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.model.compare/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/model/compare/
    structuremergeviewer/ModelStructureDiffViewer.java

</pre>

End
---

