---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Support auto-completion in the OAL editor
### xtUML Project Analysis Note

1. Abstract
-----------
This note analyzes the possible solutions to support auto-completion in the OAL
editor.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 184, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/184  
[2] CQ Issue dts0101023704  
[3] doc-internal/notes/184_dts0101023704/supported_auto_completions.txt

3. Background
-------------
The BridgePoint OAL is lacking in modern day editor support.  One of the main
features missing is support for auto-completion.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 The tool shall support auto-completion anywhere possible.

5. Analysis
-----------
5.1 Auto-completion support

5.1.1 Contexts where auto-complete support is available

Looking at the Body Subsystem in ooaofooa, the available contexts were
determined and captured in [3].  All of these context shall be supported.

5.1.1 Automatic

Auto-completion support in eclipse is invoked in two ways, one of which is
automatically.  In the JDT editor this only occurs after the . control
statement.  The tool shall support automatically invoked auto-completions for
the following control statements:

::
.
->
[
'

The auto-completion when invoked automatically shall not interfere with the
user's typing.  If the user continues to type without using the up or down arrow
to navigate the proposal list, the list shall become filtered.  If the user
types enough to where there is one or less proposals the auto-complete list
shall be closed.

5.1.2 User-invoked

In the case of starting with whitespace (no control statement) the user shall be
required to hit a key combination to bring up the auto-complete list.  This list
shall contain the following elements:

keywords
Element (Interface Name, External Entity Key Letter, Class Key Letter, Event
names)
In-scope variables

Following these statements shall be considered whitespace: ( , ; " ! = - > < * ^

The above will account for selections using key letters but in lazy way.  For
instance the following statement would give a list that included not only key
letters but also keywords and variables:

select one foo from instances of [keywords, Element, In-scope variables]

If during design we find a way to easily determine a select scope then we can
consider filtering the list on only possible class key letters.  The same
applies to event names when using create event or generate event. 

If no context can be determined a list shall never be shown.

5.2 Building the lists

We currently traverse all appropriate associations in the parser.  The parser is
not looking for a list in most cases but an exact name match on an element.  The
validation functions shall be used as an example to determine what traversals
are required for each auto-completion listed in [3].  For each one a function
shall be created which will return an array list of elements.  This function can
then later be called by the auto-complete infrastructure provided by eclipse.

For keywords a list of available keywords shall only be shown if at least the
first character is typed.
 
5.3 Integrating into eclipse

5.3.1 Eclipse content assist
 
Eclipse allows for content assist based off of a determined context.  The
context is determined in a similar manner to that of syntax coloring.  A range
of the document is considered a context.  The tool shall use this eclipse
technology defining the required contexts from [3].  The lists created in 5.2
shall have an associated completion proposal.  Each completion proposal shall be
associated with a context.  When the cursor is at a determinable context the
list of proposals shall be shown.
 
5.3.2 Generate a new editor using xtext
 
xtext is a technology that can generate support for a language, including full
eclipse editor support.  The basic implementation comes with a feature rich
base.  This base includes support for the following:
 
- Syntax highlighting
- Auto-completion (at the syntax level)
- Open declaration
- Find references
- Hyperlink support
- Error reporting (at the syntax level)
- Quick fix (at the syntax level)
 
While this sounds nice, there are things that must be considered.  They are
listed here:
 
- Need to re-implement a non-file based storage approach, or migrate the
  existing one to the xtext generated editor
- If we wanted we could move to a separate file for OAL, again there would be
  more work here to support such a move
- Need to add hooks that call our existing parser, effectively parsing twice or
  find a way to traverse the EMF AST and populate our parser tree (V_VAL and
  such)
- Need a way to add our semantical parse errors to the editor
- Need a way to add the parse errors on a parse all
- Would have to make sure that breakpoints and stepping works appropriately with
  the new editor
  
At this point this option is not considered as the option in 5.3.1 can be done
much quicker.  Other features currently requested by the customer can also be
done with basic eclipse features (this is actually how xtext implements them).

6. Work Required
----------------

7. Acceptance Test
------------------

End
---

