---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Prevent exceptions when merging new elements of different types
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes changes required to address illegal argument exceptions
when merging two different types of elements.  It also describes the changes
required to address an issue where Interface drawing causes signals to not show
on the diagram.

2. Document References
----------------------  
[1] Issues 112, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/112 - Cannot merge
                                  added operations and signals from two branches   
[2] Issues 113, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/113 - Interface
                                          decoration has inconsistency behavior   
[3] CQ Issue, dts0101009922 - [1]   
[4] CQ Issue, dts0101012870 - [2]   

3. Background
-------------
Customer testing has shown that merging two new element types (without 
pre-existing elements) causes illegal argument exceptions.  An example of the
merge situation is a class with no attributes or operations where one branch
adds in an attribute and the other adds in an operation.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Merging of the situation described in the background should not result in
    any exceptions.
    
5. Work Required
----------------
5.1. Prevent adjusting ordering associations if the two elements are of a
     different type
     
In ModelMergeProcessor.java, we currently adjust ordering associations when a 
new element is copied over.  We do this to assure the new element is put in the
matching order location.  Previously this code did not consider the case where
the new element was the first to be added, yet there were previous children that
were not part of the ordering association.  This resulted in illegal argument
exceptions due to the fact that we were trying to relate/unrelate two elements
of different types across an ordering association.  Ordering associations are
always between two of the same typed elements.  To address the issue we simply
skip relate/unrelate when the two element types do not match.

5.2 Properly draw signals when the number of signals extends the limit of the
    Interface shape
    
The graphics determine the available space for a given string.  When this string
extends the bounds of a symbol they are cropped.  The graphics break a symbol
into compartments with compartment entries.  Cropping occurs per compartment
entry.  In Interface::get_entries() we were simply returning a single entry for
all operations and all signals.  Other parts of the tool return an entry for
each element.  This allows cropping per element rather than for an entire
element list.  The get_entries() operation is modified to return the cardinality
of the operations or signals and add one in the signal case (covers the Signals
title).  The get_operation_compartment_text() and get_signal_compartment_text()
operations are modified to check the current entry number that the graphics
expect and only return the operation/signal details for that entry.  The
get_compartment_text() operation is modified to pass this entry number into
those operations.

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1 Fix licensing NPE

In BridgePointLicenseManager.java at lines 401 and 408 we were checking for a
null return from the license check.  We were incorrectly using a single & which
allowed the NPE to still occur.  These checks are changed to use the double &.

7. Unit Test
------------
<pre>
7.1 Merge Tests (manual)

_- Create a new git repository
_- Add an xtuml project with a package and a model class
_- Share and commit the changes to the new git repository
_- Create and switch to branch one
_- Add two new attributes
_- Commit the changes
_- Switch to master
_- Create and switch to branch two
_- Add two new operations
_- Switch to master
_- Merge branch one
_R Fast-forward
_- Merge branch two
_R Conflicts found
_- Right click on the project and choose Team > Merge Tool
_- Click OK (leaving default configuration)
_- Click Copy all non-conflicting changes from right to left
_R All changes are copied over
_R There are no illegal argument exceptions
_- Save the changes
_R The class has two attributes and two operations

7.2 Interface drawing tests (automated)

_- Create an interface symbol
_- Add three operations
_- Add enough signals such that the signal list in the symbol will be cropped
_R The symbols that can show are still shown
_- Delete all operations
_R The symbols are still correctly shown
_- Undo the deletion and delete all signals
_R The operations are still shown correctly

</pre>
8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 112

<pre>

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/models/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/
    ooaofooa/Component/Interface/Interface.xtuml

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.model.compare/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/
    model/compare/ModelMergeProcessor.java

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.canvas.test/src/GlobalsCanvasSuite2.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.canvas.test/expected_results/
    InterfaceDrawingTests_1/InterfaceDrawingTests_1-112
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.canvas.test/expected_results/
    InterfaceDrawingTests_1/InterfaceDrawingTests_1-112.jpg
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.canvas.test/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/
    ui/canvas/test/InterfaceDrawingTests.java

</pre>

End
---

