---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---


Support constants used via inter-project references (IPR)
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

 

1. Abstract
-----------
Constant data types defined in one project are not visible in other projects which have inter project references turned on. 


2. Document References
---------------------- 
[1] Issues 200, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/200  
[2] CQ issue dts0100949005 -  Support constants used via inter-project references (IPR)

3. Background
-------------
Steps To reproduce the issue:  
_- Start a workspace with two projects (p1, p2), both enabled for IPR  
_- Create a constant definition and a constant in p1. Name it CONST, set the value to 42.  
_- Create an OAL function "constant_test" in p1 with body: "foo = CONST;"
_- Parser does not report error  
_- Create an OAL function "constant_test" in p2 with body: "foo = CONST;"  
_R Parser DOES report error  


4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Make Constant data types defined in one project visible to other projects that have inter-project references turned on.


5. Work Required
----------------
5.1 Modify the function ooaofooa::Functions::OAL Validation Utility Functions::constant_validate() , so that when the call of the operation collectVisibleElementsForName is made
   the parameter "collect globally" gets passed with the value true as opposed to the value false.
   This modification is made to the two places where the operation is called, one for the containing package instance 
   and the other is for the containing component instance.

5.2 Add new test SupportConstantsViaIPRTests to the Parse All test suite.  

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1 When Constants get validated, the operation Constant_validate used the call for collectVisibleElementsForName() to retrieve 
all the visible constant specification instances to the current scope.  

6.2 The call for collectVisibleElementsForName() was passing the parameter collectGlobally with the value false.  
    That prevented the constant specification instances being looked for in other projects when the project is set to use IPR.  
    
6.3 Setting the value of collectGlobally to true while collecting the visible elements allows the project that has IPR turned on 
    to collect visible constants from other projects.

 

7. Unit Test
------------
7.1  Add new test SupportConstantsViaIPRTests to the Parse All test suite.  
7.1.1 Test a constant is visible to a function that lives in another project that has inter-project references turned on.   
      Test assures there is no parser error showing when this function refers to that constant.    
7.1.2 Test a constant is NOT visible to a function that lives in another project that has inter-project references turned OFF.   
      Test assures there IS parser error showing when this function refers to that constant.  
7.1.3 Add test models needed for the new added test  Constant_Project , IPR_notSet_Project and IPR_Project 

7.2 Run ParseAll JUnit test 

 

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 200_949005_HKA for repo internal 


<pre>

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.als.oal.test [internal 200_949005_HKA]/src/
    OALGlobalsTestSuite_Generics.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.als.oal.test [internal 200_949005_HKA]/src/com/mentor/
    nucleus/bp/als/oal/test/SupportConstantsViaIPRTests.java

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core [internal 200_949005_HKA]/models/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/ooaofooa/Functions/
    OAL Validation Utility Functions/OAL Validation Utility Functions.xtuml
</pre>


Branch name: 200_949005_HKA for repo  models


<pre>
 Constant_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/.externalToolBuilders/
    Model Compiler.launch
 Constant_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/models/Constant_Project/
    Constant_Project.xtuml
 Constant_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/models/Constant_Project/
    Const_PKG/Const_PKG.xtuml
 Constant_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/.cproject
 Constant_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/.project

 IPR_notSet_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/.externalToolBuilders/
    Model Compiler.launch
 IPR_notSet_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/models/IPR_notSet_Project/
    IPR_notSet_Project.xtuml
 IPR_notSet_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/models/IPR_notSet_Project/
    function_pkg/function_pkg.xtuml
 IPR_notSet_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/.cproject
 IPR_notSet_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/.project

 IPR_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/.externalToolBuilders/
    Model Compiler.launch
 IPR_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/.settings/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.project.preferences.prefs
 IPR_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/models/IPR_Project/IPR_Project.xtuml
 IPR_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/models/IPR_Project/function_pkg/
    function__Function.oal
 IPR_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/models/IPR_Project/function_pkg/
    function_pkg.xtuml
 IPR_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/.cproject
 IPR_Project [models.git 200_949005_HKA]/.project
 

</pre>

End
---

