---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Provide more information in tooltip when user hovers over element for a longer time
### xtUML Project Design Note


1. Abstract
-----------
Customers request to add some enhancement to the current tooltip implementation.
This note describe the required enhancements, and the different implementation 
techniques to address them.  

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 131, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/131    
[2] CQ DEI dts0100982691 - Provide more information in tooltip when user hovers 
	over element for a longer time   
[3] 131_dts0100982691ant.md Analysis note.  
[4] CQ DEI dts0100729705 - Increase tool tip description display time.    
[5] Issues 196, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/196  
[6] CQ DEI  dts0101050637 - Tooltip Manual Test  

3. Background
-------------
See [3].  

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 The tooltip windows shall only close when mouse pointer moves outside 
canvas element area and tooltip window.  

4.2 The tooltip shall have minimum size even the description text can be 
drawn in smaller size to avoid very small tooltip window that is hard to be
clicked.

4.2 The tooltip shall have maximum size regardless of the element description 
text size to avoid big tooltip window that can hide canvas area and get outside
monitor limit.

4.3 The tooltip window shall contain active scroll bars when needed.  

4.4 The tooltip window shall be able to get focus when the mouse pointer moves 
 into it and clicked.  

5. Analysis
-----------
See [3] .

6. Design
---------
6.1   The tooltip enhancement design was revisited, and it was found that it is 
	possible to extend the Eclipse provided tooltip mechanism. Override 
	SWTEventDispatcher.getToolTipHelper() to extend the tooltip feature.
	In order to be able to override this method, It is needed to override
	ScrollingGraphicalViewer.setEditDomain() in GraphicalEditor.createGraphicalViewer(Composite) 
	method.
	
	SWTEventDispatcher.getToolTipHelper() shall return BPTooltipHelper instead 
	of Eclipse tooltip helper object.  

6.2 Create SimpleTooltipFigure class, the newly created figure has TextFlow 
	attribute to display the description text, with text wrap support.

6.3 Update ShapeEditPart and ConnectorEditPart to set the tooltip figure using 
	new SimpleTooltipFigure class instead of Label. 

6.4 Create DetailedTooltip class, the new figure supports multiline Text with 
	vertical scrollbar, and text wrap.

 There is a set of actions displayed at the bottom of the DetailedTooltipFigure 
 window, for each element only a subset of these actions will be displayed    
 - Open Description Editor  
 - Open Diagram Editor  
 - Open Instance State Machine Editor  
 - Open Class State Machine Editor  
 - Open Activity Editor  
 - Close Tooltip   

 The DetailedToolTipFigure supports move, and resize capabilities. 

6.5 Create BPToolTipHelper class, to handle the tooltip display the way detailed 
	below: 
6.5.1 Display SimpleToolTipFigure when mouse hover over canvas element.  
6.5.2 Display DetailedToolTipFigure when the simple tooltip figure is clicked.  
6.5.3 Compute the preferred location and size for SimpleTooltipFigure and 
	DetailedTooltipFigure.  
6.5.4 Hide the simple tooltip figure when mouse cursor moves away from canvas 
	element and tooltip window.  
6.5.5 Hide the detailed tooltip figure only when user clicks on Close button. 
6.5.6 Allow multiple tooltips windows to display at the same time. 

7. Design Comments
------------------
7.1 Issue [4] -and its Github mirror [5]-  will be resolved by the design 
	outlined in the design section.

8. Unit Test
------------
8.1 Run manual test [6].


End
---

