---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Provide more information in tooltip when user hovers over element for a longer time
### xtUML Project Analysis Note


1. Abstract
-----------
Customers request to add some enhancement to the current tooltip implementation.
This note describe the required enhancements, and the different implementation 
techniques to address them.  

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 131, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/131    
[2] CQ DEI dts0100982691 - Provide more information in tooltip when user hovers 
	over element for a longer time   

3. Background
-------------
  Normally, when the mouse cursor hovers over canvas elements with a description,
it takes less than one second to popup a tooltip window with the element
description in unresizable yellow-ground winddow, with no scrollbars.
The tooltip window get stretched to match the description height and length, and 
this might end up with part of the tooltip window unvisible because is out 
of monitor screen due to large description text.  

  When the mouse point moves into the tooltip window, the tooltip got disappeared
instantly.

  After showing the tooltip window, if the mouse pointer did not move neither
move outside the element area nor move into tooltip window,  the tooltip will 
close in 5 seconds.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 The tooltip windows shall only close when mouse pointer moves outside 
canvas element area and tooltip window.  

4.2 The tooltip shall have minimum and maximum size regardless the element
description text size.  

4.3 The tooltip window shall contain active scroll bars when needed.  

4.4 The tooltip window shall be able to get focus when mouse pointer move 
 into it and clicked.  

4.5 (Optional) The tooltip window shall be resizable.  

4.6 (Optional) The tooltip window shall store the new size if user resized it.  

4.7 (Optional) The tooltip shall allow use to click on links (url , file link)
			in the description text.  
			
4.8 (Optional) The tooltip window can contain a image if the user set the image
	path in description text.  

5. Analysis
-----------
5.1  The current implementation of the tooltip is quit simple. A figure is 
	created - currently it is Label - and set element description in this figure,
    then use Eclipse GEF tooltip infrastructure by submit this figure as 
    a tooltip using setToolTip(), and Eclipse handles the rest (mouse hover 
    action, display the tooltip window, and hide it).  

     Due to this implementation, Eclipse owns most of the code. And all issues 
	such as timeout issue are brought up from Eclipse part.
 
	 Unfortunately, Eclipse does not provide easy extendible mechanism to 
	override the tooltip implementation. In another word, it is designed in such 
	way not consider extending. So it is needed more effort to implement the 
	required enhancements.

5.2  JDT tooltip is very good example of what is desired the tooltip to be look
	like. But it is not extendible, and it is tight coupled with text editors, 
	while GEF based tooltip is needed.  
 
5.3 There are different approaches to address the required tooltip enhancement 
  as follows :  
  
5.3.1 Remove the current implementation, and implement Eclipse command and 
	key bind with key - e.g F2. To pop up the tooltip window, user has to select 
	the canvas element, then strike the keyboard binded key.  

	Pros :  
	- Easy to implement.  
	- No Eclipse limitations exist preventing from implement required enhancement.  
	- Full control on pop up tooltip.  
	
	Cons :   
	- Popup the tooltip by mouse hover is removed.  

5.3.2 Use the current implementation, but extend ScrollPane and use it as the
	tooltip figure instead of Label - the current used figure. But in this case
	override Eclipse functionality will be essentials. It is required to 
	override SWTEventDispatcher, the class responsible to dispatch the mouse 
	hover event and invoke ToolTipHelper class which response to draw the
	given tooltip.  
	 The timeout and focus issues come from ToolTipHelper, and Eclipse do not
	provide extending mechanism to allow overriding this behavior. Also 
	SWTEventDispatcher class is not meant to be extendible as well, many
	important fields and methods are private, and will not be visible for the
	subclass.  
	
	Pros :  
	- Stick with draw2D figure classes, the same classes used in GEF  
	
	Cons :  
	- Not easy implementation  
	- Overriding Eclipse classes that are not designed to be extendible will leads
	to coping different code from Eclipse to maintain the same job Eclipse classes
	do. Also this might cause fallout in GEF.  
	

5.3.3 Extend DeaultToolTip classes, whos provide the basic functionality
	needed in tooltip window, with the possibility to override these functionality 
	in the feature easily. Drawing the tooltip is done using SWT classes ( Shell,
	Composites, labels, etc)     
	
	Pros :  
	- DefaultToolTip classes are the one Eclipse designed to be use for tooltip.  
	- Fairly easy to override any functionality in future if needed.  
	- Some of the requested enhancement are coming on fly ( Focus and removal
	of time out issue)  
	
	
	Cons :   
	- DefaultTip are only used for SWT Controls/Widgets and can not be used with 
	Draw2D classes.
	

5.3.4 Use IFigure.addMouseMotionListener - which is triggered when mouse hover 
	canvas element - to create dummy SWT Control and associate extended 
	DeaultToolTip object with it, and manually show the tooltip, then dispose
	dummy objects.  

	Pros :   
	- ToolTip/DefaultToolTip classes are the one Eclipse designed to be 
	use for tooltip.  
	- Fairly easy to override any functionality in future if needed.  
	- Some of the requested enhancement are coming on fly (Focus and removal
	of time out issue)  
	
	Cons :  
	- Creating dummy SWT objects that are not visible, and that might the affect
	or tooltip behavior, also these objects need to be dispose properly.    


5.3.5 Use EditPartListener.selectedStateChanged listener to display a small
	popup window below the selected canvas element. The window stays visible
	until selection changed. This window will contain an image, when clicked, 
	a tooltip window will show using the same technology in 5.3.3.  

	  Pros :   
	- In future, this window can contain more actions like Open Description 
	Editor, and some special action based on selected element (New Operation,
	New Attribute, New Bridge, etc).  
  
	Cons : 
	- More work to do than 5.3.4  
  
5.3.6 Use IFigure.addMouseMotionListener - which trigger when mouse hover 
	canvas element -  to create BrdigePoint tooltip window from scratch, and 
	show it.  
	
	Pros :  
	- Complete freedom on the tooltip drawing/behavior  
	- No need for dummy objects creation.  
	
	Cons :   
	- More work to do than 5.3.4  
	- BrdigePoint will not get any benefit of any Eclipse enhancement on tooltip 
	infrastructure will  
	
6. Work Required
----------------
6.1 Approach 5.3.4 is chosen to be implementing because of the better Eclipse
 support, and easier implementation  
6.1.1 Remove the existing implementation for current tooltip  
6.1.2 Add mouse motion listener to the created figure in ShapeEditPart.createFigure()
     and as well for connections in ConnectorEditPart.  
6.1.3 Extend DefaultToolTip to add the required enhancement.  
6.1.4 Create dummy SWT Control object in added mouse motion listener, associated
	with tooltip and activate it.  

7. Acceptance Test
------------------
7.1 Perform the following steps :   
_- Create a new model    
_- Add new package "system".  
_- Open "system" description editor, add multiple lines text, and save.  

- ToolTip test steps :  
_- Mouse hover "system" package  
_R Tooltip shows with the entered description   
_- Do not move the mouse for more than 5 seconds  
_R Tooltip still up  
_- Move mouse cursor into the tooltip window  
_R Tooltip still up  
_- Move the mouse outside the tooltip and package box.  
_R Tooltip disappeared  


_- Add ModelClass with reflexsive association in "system"  with description for 
   both of them.  
_- Repeat tooltip tests steps on the modelclass and association  
_- Add new modelclass with description text with more than 150 lines, and one
   line at least with one than 200 character  
_- Mouse hover the previous created modelcass  
_R Tooltip shows with the entered description in appropriate size, and description 
	text is not completely visible, and scrollbars are active.  
_- Move mouse cursor into the tooltip window, and select the scrollbars, move them  
_R Ability to view description text completely using the scrollbars  


End
---

