---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Allow global references to bridges
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes the changes required to support global referencing for
bridge operations.  Additionally it describes the changes required to specify
a realized implementation path for external entities.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 68, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/68  
[2] CQ DEI dts0100939989 - Improve reusability of External Entities - allow   
                                "library" projects to be imported and referenced  
[3] Issues 70, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/70 - Support audit of
                                                      realized external entities
[4] Issues 71, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/71 - Consider changing the
                   external entity label when a realized class path is specified
3. Background
-------------
Customers would like the ability to used common external entities across
multiple projects.  They would also like to be able to specify a realized path
to a java implementation.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 The tool shall allow references to external entity bridges in other projects
4.2 The tool shall allow specifying a path to a class file or jar file  
    containing a realized implementation for an external entity
4.3 When a realized implementation path is specified Verifier shall use that  
    java class for execution.

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1 Allow global references to bridges

To allow global references to bridges the parser is modified such that when
looking for a valid external entity the collection calls pass true for the
global parameter.  Passing true allows the collection logic to extend its search
outside of the local project.  The collection logic correctly honors the project
preference for inter-project referencing.

5.2 Support specifying a path to a realized implementation

A new attribute is added to the External Entity class, Realized_Class_Path.
This attribute is a string that the user can set to specify a realized
implementation.

Two files in io.core are modified to support importing an older model that did
not have this attribute in the External Entity class.  These are
gen_import_java.inc and import_functions.inc.

In io.sql the metamodel, bp_ooa_ooa.sql, is modified to include this new
attribute.

Expected results for io.mdl.test are updated to account for the new attribute.

5.3 Support realized implementation value in Verifier

In Bridge Invocation.execute() checks are added for the
External Entity::Realized_Class_Path attribute.  If the value is set then
execution of OAL and automatically wired domain functions is skipped.  If the
value is set the existing logic that executes a realized class is processed
using the configured path to set the java class path.

To support setting the class path in the VM external entity a new bridge is
added, addUserClassPath(string:path, unique_id:system_id).  The native
implementation of this bridge simply locates the system by id and calls the
existing addUserClassPath(SystemModel_c system, String path) method.  

5.4 Audit support for realized external entities

Due to the time constraint for this release audit support is not being
implemented.  [3] was raised to cover this work.

5.5 Label of external entities

A new attribute is added to the External Entity class, Label.  This attribute is
derived and has its value calculated based off of the value set in
Realized_Class_Path.  If the Realized_Class_Path attribute has a value set the
display name for the external entity has "realized by <class_name>" appended.

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1 Add Built-in External Entities context menu

Testing has shown that the menu item that adds default external entities does
not show when selecting a package in the graphical editor.  To fix this the
create_core_plugin.inc file is modified to specify that the menu item is
adaptable.  This allows the graphical editor to adapt a graphical element to the
represented metamodel element.

7. Unit Test
------------
7.1 Allow global references to bridges

_- Create two systems   
_- Set both to use IPRs   
_- Create an EE in one system   
_- Create a bridge in the EE  
_- Create a function in the other system  
_- Create OAL that uses the bridge from the other system  
_R There are no parse errors  

7.2 Support specifying a path to a realized implementation

_- Select an EE  
_R In properties the Realized Class Path child is present  
_- Change the value  
_R The value is set in properties  

_- Import a model not touched by this code, that has an EE  
_R The EE is properly imported and there are no exceptions in the log file  

7.3 Support realized implementation value in Verifier

_- Create two systems  
_- Set both to use IPRs  
_- Create an EE in one system under a package  
_- Create a component in the system  
_- Select the package in the canvas and select the Add Built-in External  
   Entities menu item  
_- Create a bridge in the EE that prints a message using
   java:System.out.println("test");
_- Configure the EE to point at a class file that is named after the keyletters
   and provides the native implementation of the bridge
_- Create a function in the other system under a component  
_- Create OAL that calls the bridge from the other system  
_- Launch verifier selecting both projects  
_- Execute the function  
_R The test message is printed in the console  
_- Jar the class file and repeat the test configuring the EE to point at the jar
   file
   
7.4 Model Compiler usage

_- Use the steps from 7.3 to setup the model  
_- Build the referencing project  
_- Run the executable  
_R The test message is printed  

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: Review-dts0100939989

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/arc/create_core_plugin.inc  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/models/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/ooaofooa/Domain/
    External Entity/External Entity.xtuml  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/models/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/ooaofooa/
    External Entities/External Entities.xtuml  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/models/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/ooaofooa/
    Functions/OAL Validation Functions/OAL Validation Functions.xtuml  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/models/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/ooaofooa/
    Functions/OAL Validation Utility Functions/  
    OAL Validation Utility Functions.xtuml  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/models/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/ooaofooa/
    Invocation/Bridge Invocation/Bridge Invocation.xtuml  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/core/Vm_c.java  

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.core/arc/gen_import_java.inc  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.core/arc/import_functions.inc  

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.mdl.test/expected_results/odmsGenericsGlobals.xtuml  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.mdl.test/expected_results/testOAL1.xtuml  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.mdl.test/expected_results/testOAL1Generics.xtuml  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.mdl.test/expected_results/watch_exportGenerics.xtuml  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.mdl.test/expected_results/models/
    nested_testGenericsGlobals.xtuml  
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.mdl.test/expected_results/models/
    odmsGenericsGlobals.xtuml  

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.sql/sql/bp_ooa_ooa.sql  

End
---

