---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Remove PMC identical sub-entry from Model Explorer
### xtUML Project Design Note



1. Abstract
-----------
In model explorer view, model elements that have system file associated with 
them, have an extra tree element as a sub-entry to parent tree elements.
It is required to remove this duplicated tree elements. 

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 109, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/109  
[2] ClearQuest DEI dts0101011411

3. Background
-------------
3.1 Historically, the sub-entries were used for CM operations at the file level.
	We advise users not to do file CM, instead, commit the whole model at once, 
	so it is decided to remove sub-entries.  


4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 All model elements shall only have single tree element in model explorer.  

4.2 Model elements with no children shall not have an expansion arrow next to 
    them  


5. Analysis
-----------
5.1 The identical sub-entries are added manually for all elements with file 
 associated with them. This action is done in <ModelElement>Adapter.getChildren(Object) 
 
5.2 ModelElementFileFacade object represents the sub-entry tree element, and
    the object is stored in < ModelElement >.fileFacade. 


6. Design
---------
6.1 Delete ModelElementFileFacade class. 

6.2 Use ModelElementFileFacade as a search keyword and remove any reference to
	it.  
6.3 Use is_compRoot as a search keyword and remove any java code generated based
	 on its value  
6.4 In create_adaptors.inc, remove children number incremental in getChildren 
	function.  
	Also remove the file existence check in hasChildren function.  
6.5 Delete NonRootModelElement.getFileFacade() method and any reference to it.  

6.6 Fix any fallout in junit tests due that might happened due to the removal 
  of the sub-entry and update expected results if needed.  


7. Design Comments
------------------
None.

8. Unit Test
------------
8.1 All junits must pass.

End
---

