---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Reflexive Association have no clear connection between association end and attribute
### xtUML Project Design Note

1. Abstract
-----------
When formalizing reflexive associations, there is no clear connection between 
the formalizing attribute and the association end.

For Reflexive associations with associative classes, formalizing results in two 
attributes with the same name in the association class. There is no possibility 
to connect each attribute to the specific desired association end.

The issue [2] was fixed , but the customer -SAAB- did not like the fix
and asked to reopen the issue.

2. Document References
----------------------

[1] Issues 39, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/39

[2] ClearQuest DEI dts0100835691 - Formalized Reflexive Association have no 
	clear connection between the association end and the formalized attribute.

3. Background
-------------
 This issue was previously resolved, but the customer -SAAB- asked to enhance 
the resolution and to reopen the issue.

 In the implemented fix, two Text boxes were added to the formalize wizard to 
allow the user to enter two different prefixes for each referential identifier.
 
 This helps the user to differentiate between the created referential 
identifiers, but it was ambiguous which prefix goes to which association ends. 
Therefore the customer requested to reopen the issue.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 In a reflexive association, the direction between the formalizing each in 
attribute connection's end shall be clear.

4.2 While formalize a binary association, the direction of formalization
 shall be selectable.

5. Analysis
-----------
5.1 In formalize wizard, the user shall be able to add a prefix to referential 
    identifiers and it shall be clear for the user which association end will be 
    hooked up with each specific entered prefix.

5.1.1 In the formalize wizard, it shall be required to choose which association 
	end each prefix is associated with.

5.1.2 The formalize wizard page shall read as follows : 

5.1.2.1 Suggestion 1:    
Prefix [< entered prefix >] goes with identifier [< ID >] of class < key letter > for the [< association text phrase >] side

5.1.2.2 Suggestion 2:  
< key letter >  :  Prefix [< entered prefix > ] for  [ < ID > ] goes with [< association text phrase >]

5.1.3 Suggestion 5.1.2.1  shall be used because if the relation text phrase was 
	empty, "for the [ ] side" will be removed without breaking the meaning.

5.1.4 The change made to the formalize shall be consistent for associative, 
	reflexive, binary associations.

5.1.5 The user can add a prefix for both referential identifiers or only to one 
	of them.

5.2 During Formalizing a binary association, user selects the formalizer part by 
	choosing a class using the formalize wizard. Unfortunately if the binary 
	association is reflexive one, in this case, user unable to select the 
	formalizer part using Formalize wizard since both association ends belongs 
	to the same class.

5.2.1 The first page in the binary formalize wizard shall allow the user to 
	select the formalization direction, by listing classes with identifiers in 
	binary association, and listing association text phrases in reflexive binary 
	association. 
	The wizard title shall be : "Formalize Association" 
	The wizard description shall be  : "Select the participating class whose 
	identifier will be used to formalize the association"

5.2.2 The second page shall allow the user to select the desired referential 
	identifier and optionally add a prefix to the selected identifier
	page title will be : "Formalize Referential"
	page description : 
	  "Select the referential identifier whose will be used to formalize the association" 
	  "Adding a prefix to the referential identifier is optional" 
 	And a note message at the bottom of page :
 	Note : "The optional prefix text will be added at the beginning to the 
 	referential identifier name, prefix will be essential in reflexive 
 	association to be able to differentiate between the original and referential 
 	identifier"

5.2.3 In binary reflexive use-case, if the user did not entered text phrases for 
	both association ends a hint text will be displayed in the first page :
		"Hint : Enter association text phrases to be able to differentiate 
		between association ends"

5.2.4 ClassInAssociation - OIR_ID - shall  be used to retrieve the user 
	selection instead of ModelClass - OBJ_ID - since the modelclass is not 
	unique in reflexive use-case

5.2.5 In binary reflexive associations, since the both association ends belong 
	to the same class, so when select ClassAsSimpleParticipent in 
	SimpleAssociation::Formalize(), there is no clue which association side 
	will be selected. therefore, replace OBJ_ID with OIR_ID in operation
	argument and ClassAsSimpleAssociation select statement, since  OIR_ID is 
	unique over ClassAsSimpleParticipent instances
	

5.3 For formalize linked association wizard page:
page title :  "Formalize"
page description : "Select identifier to use from each class"


6. Design
---------
6.1 For formalize linked association wizard
Edit page.inc  archetype file in order to :  
6.1.1 Change the format of Formalize wizard to match 5.1.2.1
6.1.2 Update page title and description as in 5.2.4 for linked association
wizard 
6.1.2 Display the association text phrase ( if it exists )  
6.1.3 Allow the user to enter only one prefix without cause crash.  

6.2 For formalize binary association wizard  
6.2.1 Due to the assumptions made in the generation technique based on few 
	information in the OAL statements. This assumptions need to different 
	modifications because of the special handling in the Binary Wizard
	( allowing the user to select the formalize direction in Reflexive case )   
6.2.2 Generate Binary wizards once and apply the needed modification to implement 
	changes in 5.2  
6.2.3 Remove formalize binary association wizard class from  .gitignore file  
6.2.4 Exclude the generation of formalize binary wizard in wizard.arc  
6.2.5 Add the removed files in 6.2.3 to the version control file list in generate.xml  

6.3 Replace OBJ_ID with OIR_ID in SimpleAssociation::Formalize() as required in
	5.2.5.

7. Design Comments
------------------
None.

8. Unit Test
------------
A new unit test shall be create for this testing.  The existing formalization test shall be used as
the starting point for this test.

8.1 Assure the the new prefixes are properly used.  
8.1.2 Repeat the following for each type of association: reflexive, binary, associative
    _- Formalize the selected association  
    _- Entering a prefix for the referential identifiers   
    _- validate that the prefixes are added to the created identifiers.  

8.2 Repeat 8.1 with just 1 prefix  

8.3 8.1 with no prefixes specified is already implemented the existed generated formalize test


End
---

