---

Copyright 2012 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

xtUML Project Design Note

Provide extended string manipulation functions in RSL


1. Abstract
-----------
A customer has requested a specific string manipulation routine be added to
RSL.  This issue is raised to satisfy that request.

2. History
----------

3. Document References
----------------------

[1] Clearquest DEI dts0100931135

[2] BridgePoint Documentation -  Reference > RSL Reference > RSL Overview > 
                                 Substitution Variables
    http://127.0.0.1:62912/help/topic/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.doc/Reference/RSL/HTML/archetypes-15.htm

[3] [cvs]libTRANS
    This is the BridgePoint project that holds the source for the libTRANS.dll
    shipped with BridgePoint.  It allso holds the current copy of libTRANS.dll
    that is being shipped.

[4] libTRANS.dll source files distributed with BridgePoint model compilers
    	[cvs]model_compilers\mc3020\translate
    	
    After BridgePoint is installed by the customer, these files can be found 
    here:
    [BridgePoint Installation Folder]\eclipse_extensions\BridgePoint\eclipse\plugins\
                                      com.mentor.nucleus.bp.mc.c.binary_<version>\mc3020\translate
    
4. Background
-------------
BridgePoint RSL has a feature that is designed to make it easy to introduce 
new string manipulation routines to RSL.  This feature is the $T<option> string 
manipulation routine [2].   This document will introduce a couple of new string 
manipulation routines which shall be described in the requirements section. 
In describing how this work was done, this document shall show how anyone that
owns a BridgePoint model compiler can make similar extensions.

Internally, there are currently 2 copies of the files that may be used to
build libTRANS.dll.  These are found here [3], and here [4].  The reason there 
are 2 copies is that one copy [3] is the copy that gets distributed with all
BridgePoint installations and is the copy used by default, and the other [4] is
an example of what has been used in the past to provide some extended
behavior.  The files in [4] can be used by customers to make their own 
extensions.

4.1 If you look at the file in either [3] or [4] what you should notice first is
the libtrans.def file.  This defines the interface between gen_erate and 
this libTRANS DLL.  The interface is very simple:
EXPORTS
	pt_TranslateInit
	pt_TranslateString
	pt_TranslateCleanup

This simple interface allows string to be initialized (pt_TranslateInit), 
manipulated through the $T<option> mechanism [2] (pt_TranslateString), and 
destroyed (pt_TranslateCleanup).  To simply add new functionality one only needs
to modify pt_TranslateString to handle the new $T<option> functionality 
introduced.  

4.2 Looking again at the files used to build libTRANS [3]/[4], you will notice
    that there is only one source file, pt_trans.c.  This is the source file
    that defines the behaviors allowed by the $T<option> feature.

4.3 Open pt_trans.c and locate the definition of pt_TranslateString.  
    You will find that this function contains a sequence of if/else statements
    that are used to determine which of the $T<option>s is being specified.
    To add handling for a new $T<option> one simply determines what the option 
    string will be, and then adds code here to handle it.
    
4.4 It is suggested that when adding new functionality you first examine one 
    or more of the other $T options and follow it as a guide.  The most 
    important things to keep in mind are:
    
    -The intereface is fixed, so you basically have 2 paramaters to use. One is
     the name of the $T option, and the other is the string that is passed-in.
     
    -Never return null.  Return an empty string if needed, but never return 
     null.

4.5 To build the DLL use the makefile that is present in the same folder as the
    source [3][4].     
<pre>    
    _- It is suggested that MSVC6 with service pack 6 be used to build the DLL.  
       The reason for this is that this is the version that is used to build
       gen_erate.exe, and is gen_ERate that makes calls to libTRANS.DLL.
       While it should be possIble to use other compilers MS VC6 is the 
       only one used by the BRidgePoint team for building libTRans.DLL.
    _- To configure the MSVC6 environment for building:
        _- Open a DOS command prompt
        _- Run the VCVARS32.bat file in the Visual Studio BIN/ folder
    _- The makefiles for [3] and [4] are not the same.  To build for 
       Bridgepoint:  nmake libTRANS.mk
       To build the example provided in MC3020:
        nmake lib
	_- After building the new libTRANS.dll, the new DLL should be placed in the 
       installation's model compiler bin folder.  For a default installation this 
       is here:
   C:\MentorGraphics\BridgePoint\eclipse_extensions\BridgePoint\eclipse\
      plugins\com.mentor.nucleus.bp.mc.c.binary_3.6.0\mc3020\bin\libTRANS.dll
</pre>   

5. Requirements
---------------
5.1 Introduce $T option(s) that allow a string to be split into substrings using
    the '_' character as a delimiter.

6. Analysis
-----------
6.1 Introduce a new $T option named 'strsep_' that returns a substring of the 
    string passed-in that contains all charaters up-to but not including the
    first '_' in the given string.  If the given string has no '_' then the 
    result returned shall be a copy of the string passed-in.

6.1.1 Example:
```
    .assign test="Test String1_Test String2_Test String3"
    .print $Tstrsep_{test}
    
    result: "Test String1"
```

6.2 Introduce a new $T option named '_strsep' that returns a substring of the 
    string passed-in that contains all characters that follow the first '_' in
    the given string.  If there is no '_' in the given string then an empty 
    string is returned.
    
6.2.1 Example:
```
    .assign test="Test String1_Test String2_Test String3"
    .print $T_strsep{test}
    
    result: "Test String2_Test String3"
```

7. Design
---------
7.1 The following code is added to implement the $Tstrsep_ option:
    
```c++
    
    if (strcmp(p_switch, "strsep_") == 0) {
    	// Return all characters up to, but not including the first "_".  If
    	// No "_" is present the string passed-in is returned.
        len = strlen( p_string );
        if ( return_buffer )
        {
            free ( return_buffer );
        }

        underscorePtr = strchr ( p_string, '_' );
        if (underscorePtr != 0) {
        	len = (underscorePtr-p_string);
        }
        return_buffer = malloc( len+1 );  // Add 1 for the null terminator

        memcpy(return_buffer, p_string, len);
        return_buffer[len] = 0;

        return return_buffer;
    }
```

7.2 The following code is added to implement the $T_strsep option:

```c++

    if (strcmp(p_switch, "_strsep") == 0) {
    	// Return all characters that follow the first "_" in the string.  If
    	// no "_" is present an empty string is returned.
    	// Return all characters up to, but not including the first "_".  If
    	// No "_" is present the string passed-in is returned.
        if ( return_buffer )
        {
            free ( return_buffer );
            return_buffer = 0;
        }

        underscorePtr = strchr ( p_string, '_' );
        if (underscorePtr != 0) {
            len = strlen( p_string );
            newLength = &(p_string[len-1]) - underscorePtr;

            return_buffer = malloc((newLength) + 1 );  // Add 1 for the null terminator

            memcpy(return_buffer, underscorePtr+1, newLength);
            return_buffer[newLength] = 0;

        } else {
            return_buffer = malloc(1);  // Add 1 for the null terminator
            return_buffer[0] = 0;
        }


        return return_buffer;
    }
```

8. Design Comments
------------------
none

9. Work Required
----------------
Fully described in the analysis and design sections.

10. Unit Test
------------
This is a manual test.

10.1 Assure that the new $Tstrsep_ and $T_strsep options produce the desired
     result.
<pre>     
_- Assure that the version of BridgePoint under test has a copy of libTRANS.dll
   that contains the $Tstrsep_ and $T_strsep string handling.
   For the default installation location of the MC3020 source model compiler 
   this file is found here:
   C:\MentorGraphics\BridgePoint\eclipse_extensions\BridgePoint\eclipse\
      plugins\com.mentor.nucleus.bp.mc.c.source_3.6.0\mc3020\bin\libTRANS.dll   
_- Create a new xtUML project, MO-source,  that uses the MC3020 source model 
   compiler and copy/paste the "components" package from the default 
   MicrowaveOven project into this project.
   Note: The reason for this is that this test will use the ability to execute
         an archetype that exists in the project gen folder.  This functionality
         requires that a source MC be used.
_- Add the following classes to the MO-source test model.
     "_"
     "_test1"
     "test2_"
     "test3_abc"
     "test4_abc_def"
_- Create a simple archetype that will print out these class names and place 
   this archetype in the MO-source/gen folder.  Here is the RSL for this:
.select many class_set from instances of O_OBJ
  .for each class_inst in class_set
	
    .print "Class name: '${class_inst.Name}'\n\t\t\t(strsep_): '$tstrsep_{class_inst.Name}'\n\t\t\t(_strsep): 
'$t_strsep{class_inst.Name}'"	

  .end for

_- Build the model.
_R   
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: 'Beeper'
				(strsep_): 'Beeper'
				(_strsep): ''
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: 'Door'
				(strsep_): 'Door'
				(_strsep): ''
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: 'Internal Light'
				(strsep_): 'Internal Light'
				(_strsep): ''
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: 'Magnetron Tube'
				(strsep_): 'Magnetron Tube'
				(_strsep): ''
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: 'Oven'
				(strsep_): 'Oven'
				(_strsep): ''
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: 'Turntable'
				(strsep_): 'Turntable'
				(_strsep): ''
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: '_'
				(strsep_): ''
				(_strsep): ''
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: '_test1'
				(strsep_): ''
				(_strsep): 'test1'
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: 'test2_'
				(strsep_): 'test2'
				(_strsep): ''
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: 'test3_abc'
				(strsep_): 'test3'
				(_strsep): 'abc'
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: 'test4_abc_def'
				(strsep_): 'test4'
				(_strsep): 'abc_def'
	dts0100931135.arc: 4:  INFO:  Class name: 'Test Sequences'
				(strsep_): 'Test Sequences'
				(_strsep): ''
</pre>   
End
---

