---

Copyright 2012 Mentor Graphics Corporation

---

# Obtain open source licensing for BridgePoint.
### xtUML Project Analysis Note


1. Abstract
-----------
The xtUML Editor in BridgePoint is going open source.  This has cascading 
implications on how the source code is licensed as well as the content on the
supporting website xtUML.org.

2. History
----------
None.

3. Document References
----------------------
[1] ClearQuest DEI dts0100906710 - BridgePoint Open Source Phase I

[2] ClearQuest DEI dts0100906711 - BridgePoint Open Source Phase II

[3] Open Source Initiative.  http://www.opensource.org    

[4] Open Source Licenses by Category. 
    http://www.opensource.org/licenses/category

[5] Choosing a License. http://wiki.civiccommons.org/Choosing_a_License

[6] Producing Open Source Software, Karl Fogel. 
    http://www.producingoss.com/en/license-quickstart.html

[7] Comparison of Free Software Licenses. 
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_free_software_licenses

[8] GNU General Public License. http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html

[9] Eclipse Public License. http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html

[10] Apache License. http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

[11] BSD License (3-clause/Modified version).
     http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BSD_license#3-clause_license_.28.22New_BSD_License.22_or_.22Modified_BSD_License.22.29 

[12] EPL - Derivative Works. 
     http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eclipse_Public_License#Derivative_works

[13] Apache Directory Project. 
     http://directory.apache.org/studio/installation-in-eclipse.html

[14] Contributor Agreements. 
     http://wiki.civiccommons.org/Contributor_Agreements

[15] Becomming a Mozilla Committer. http://www.mozilla.org/hacking/notification/

[16] Linux Developer's Certificate of Origin. 
     http://lxr.linux.no/linux+v3.6.8/Documentation/SubmittingPatches#L310

[17] Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal Public Domain Dedication.  
     http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/

[18] Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported (CC BY 3.0)
     http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

[19] BSD Licenses. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BSD_licenses

[20] ClearQuest DEI dts0100931759 - Mechanically apply OSS license to the source
     artifacts (including models) for xtUML Editor

[21] ClearQuest DEI dts0100931760 - Search our source for stuff we do not own

4. Background
-------------
Mentor Graphics must choose the license it wants to release the source code for
the xtUML Editor under.  There are many options available and the choice will 
have implications for the future of the open source Editor.  We must also
consider how interested parties can contribute new source code to the xtUML
Editor.

In addition, we are setting up a collaboration website at http://www.xtuml.org.
We expect to have a flow of ideas from many contributors, both as individual
users and corporate employees.  Mentor Graphics must lay the ground rules for 
how users of the website can share and reuse these ideas (in the various forms
of chats, formal documentation, example models).

5. Requirements
---------------
5.1  Choose a license to govern the source code and binary distribution of xtUML 
     Editor.
     
5.2  Choose a license to govern the content submitted to xtUML.org and to the
     github repositories that house data other than the source code.
     
5.3  Choose the legal mechanism that governs contributions to the source code
     after the initial release.    

6. Analysis
-----------
6.1  xtUML Editor Licensing

6.1.1  In order to help facilitate our choice of license, the engineering team
       asked the following questions and provided the given answers:
<pre>
  1) Do we want users to be able to run the software for commercial purposes?
       YES     
  2) Do we want users to be able to redistribute the source code:
    a) commercially?  YES       
    b) for free?      YES   
  3) Do we want users to be able to redistribute the binary plug-ins:
    a) commercially?  YES        
    b) for free?      YES   
  4) Do we want users to be able to fork the code:
    a) and distribute a derived work under the same license?    YES       
    b) and distribute a derived work under a different license? YES
  5) Do we want users to be able to modify the code?      
    a) and retain their own copyright?  YES
    b) or must they assign the copyright to xtUML.org (or Mentor Graphics)?  NO   
  6) Do we want users to be able to make and distribute proprietary 
     modifications to the code?  YES
  7) Must user modifications to the code be distributed in source form?  YES  
</pre>

6.1.2  The Open Source Initiative (OSI) [3] is the de facto standards body that 
       determines if a given license is open source or not.  Many groups, 
       corporations, and even individuals have created licenses to serve their 
       own specific purposes.  OSI declares whether or not a submitted license
       meets their own Open Source Definition.
       
6.1.3  There are a large number of existing licenses [4] that the OSI has ruled
       on.  During the analysis done for xtUML Editor, the author found examples
       both outside Mentor Graphics [5] [6] and by talking to the Mentor ESD
       team that strongly encourage the choice an existing OSI-approved license.
         
6.1.4  Many large corporations have already released software under one of these
       existing OSS licenses.  For example IBM releases and supports eclipse 
       under the Eclipse Public License.  Google releases and supports the 
       Android operating system under the Apache License.  Mentor Graphics ESD 
       releases some components of the Sourcery CodeBench tool under the BSD
       License.
      
6.1.5  OSS licenses have various degrees of permissiveness in what a recipient 
       of the software is allowed to do with source code and binaries.  OSS
       licenses also may have varying degrees of a viral effect, known as 
       copyleft, that dictates how other software that uses the licensed 
       software (in source or binary form) must be licensed.
       
6.1.6  After a broad analysis, the possible choices of the license to use for
       xtUML Editor were narrowed down to four.
       
6.1.6.1  GNU GPL [8].  The GPL is non-permissive and the archetype of a strong 
         copyleft/viral license. 
         
6.1.6.2  Eclipse Public License (EPL) [9].  The EPL is more permissive than the
         GPL but retains some restrictions, and has some weak copyleft 
         attributes.
         
6.1.6.3  Apache License [10].  The Apache License is very permissive and has no
         copyleft implications.  It includes some language regarding patent
         litigation that could be considered important.
         
6.1.6.4  BSD License (3-clause/Modified version) [11].  This is a very short,
         permissive license with no copyleft implications.

6.1.7  Questionnaire Table
          In the following table a "-" indicates the license does not support 
          our desired behavior specified in 6.1.1.  An "A" means the license 
          agrees with our desired behavior.
         
               1  2a  2b  3a  3b  4a  4b  5a  5b  6  7 
     GPL       A  A   A   A   A   A   -   A   A   -  A
     
     EPL       A  A   A   A   A   A   **  A   A   ** A  
     
     Apache    A  A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A  -
     
     BSD       A  A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A  -
     
     ** Partially.  See [12]
     
6.1.8  Based on the above analysis, the choice is narrowed down further to two
       possibilities: Eclipse and Apache Licenses.  
       GPL is dismissed from consideration because it disagrees with our 
       desired behavior in 4b and 6.
       BSD is dismissed because there is some confusion in the OSS world
       surrounding this license.  The term "BSD License" is often thrown around
       without respect to the various versions of the license that exist [19]
       (previous, 4-clause, 3-clause, and 2-clause).  The Apache license is 
       nearly identical in effect, has less surrounding confusion, and offers
       a patent termination provision that could be useful if needed.
       The most significant difference between the Eclipse and Apache 
       licenses is whether or not recipients who modify and redistribute
       must release their modified source code.
       
6.1.8.1  Individual developers and corporations who want to contribute source 
         code can reasonably be expected to quickly achieve a comfort level with
         either choice.
         
6.1.8.2  These developers probably expect the xtUML Editor to be licensed under
         the EPL simply as a matter of association to the underlying platform.
         However, other eclipse extensions have been found that license under 
         different terms (e.g. Apache License [13]).
          
6.1.8.3  Choosing the EPL for xtUML Editor might make some future integration
         into the core Eclipse Modeling Tools easier.  However, choosing Apache
         now does not shut the door to that down the road.

6.1.9  Recommendation
       The choice really comes down to the expectation of getting modified 
       sources or not.  Since our requirement is that the user must release the 
       source of the modified software, the EPL is the necessary choice.  It has
       the added benefits discussed in 6.1.8.1.
       If we wanted to reconsider and leave it up to the developer of modified 
       code whether they wanted to release the source or not, Apache would be
       the suggested license.
       
6.2  xtuml.org and github Non-source Repositories Content Licensing

6.2.1  Two Options are Considered

6.2.1.1  CC0 1.0 Universal (CC0 1.0) Public Domain Dedication [17]
         The person who associated a work with this deed has dedicated the work 
         to the public domain by waiving all of his or her rights to the work 
         worldwide under copyright law, including all related and neighboring 
         rights, to the extent allowed by law.
         
6.2.1.2  Attribution 3.0 Unported (CC BY 3.0) [18]
<pre>
         With this license the recipient is free:
           to Share — to copy, distribute and transmit the work
           to Remix — to adapt the work
           to make commercial use of the work
         Under the following conditions:
           Attribution — You must attribute the work in the manner specified by 
           the author or licensor (but not in any way that suggests that they 
           endorse you or your use of the work.)
</pre>

6.2.2  Recommendation

6.2.2.1  To facilitate the maximum amount of sharing and reuse, the content on 
         xtuml.org and in the public github xtuml/ repositories should be 
         extremely open.  Both of these licenses support this use case.
         
6.2.2.2  CC0 frees collaborators to share information without concern for
         "making sure they do it right".  As such, it will enable the goals of 
         the collaboration areas to the greatest degree.
         
           * All user submitted forum content should be placed under CC0
           * All user submitted models to public repositories on github in the 
             xtuml organization should be placed under CC0.
             
6.2.2.3  Content that is hyperlinked to from xtUML.org is licensed under the
         terms of the author of the content.
       
6.3  Handling Source Code Contributions

6.3.1  Choosing an original license is only part of the story.  The project must
       also decide the rights and obligations of developers who contribute
patches to the xtUML Editor sources.  This is handled through the use
of what is called a "Contributor Agreement" [14].
       
A contributor agreement can be a formal process with a documented 
agreement submitted by the developer.  This approach is taken by the 
OSS Mozilla project [15].

Or, it can be a less formal process with a sort of "handshake agreement"
as used by the Linux development team [16].

6.3.2  Given the infancy of the xtUML Editor project, it would be overkill to 
       take Mozilla's approach at this time.  The Linux approach has worked fine
       for that project for a long time and can reasonably be expected to work
       for xtUML Editor.

7. Work Required
----------------
7.1  Get sign-off from Mentor Legal to distribute xtUML Editor under the EPL.

7.1.1  Update the license files in the plug-ins.

7.1.2  Add copyright to xtUML.org for all the released code.

7.2  Add notice on xtUML.org regarding the fact that submitted forum content is 
     placed under CC0.
     
7.3  Update the README.md for xtuml organization github repositories with the 
     proper license EPL or CC0 for all content in that repository.
     
7.4  Create a Developer Certificate of Origin for xtUML Editor and add it to the
     xtuml/editor and other public github repositories README.md.  Also 
     reference it on xtUML.org.

7.5  Create DEI for work to mechanically apply OSS license to the source 
     artifacts (including models) for xtUML Editor [20].
     
7.6  Create DEI to track task to search our source for stuff we do not own [21].

8. Acceptance Test
------------
8.1  Get e-mail sign-off from:

    Keith Brown, Cort Starrett, Campbell McCausland, Bill Chown, John Wolfe, 
    Dean McArthur, Darrell Teegarden, Michelle Lange, Mentor Legal

End
---

