---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Restore lost fixes for dts0100917321 and dts0100909056
### xtUML Project Implementation Note


1. Abstract
-----------
Somewhere along the way the fixes that the BridgePoint team had for the two
headline issues were lost or overwritten.  This issue will put them back in 
place.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 76, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/76  
[2] CQ DEI dts0100917321  
[3] CQ DEI dts0100909056  
[4] New model "orphaned_ref_attribute", https://github.com/xtuml/models/issues/13  

3. Background
-------------
3.1 The original work to fix [2] and [3] was performed around 3/2013 and promoted 
  to HEAD.  However, during the process of creating release candidates for R3_7_0
  there was a promotion on 5/11/13 that actually undid the previously promoted
  work for these issues.  

3.2  The work for [2] was performed in CVS branch Review-dts0100917321a.  This 
  branch was promoted to HEAD on 5/10/2013.  Based on the file history for one
  of the key files (```context_menu.pei.sql```), it appears that a branch "R3_7_0RC1"
  was then created from HEAD.  The comment log for this file indicates that the
  Review-dts0100917321a branch was then merged into the R3_7_0RC1 branch creating
  revision 1.66.2.1 of the file.  However, this revision actually removes (undoes)
  the change to fix the issue.  
  
  The now unfixed file was then promoted to HEAD with the comment: "Promoted from 
  branch R3_7_0RC1.  See the cq notes and the implementation note document: 
  R3_7_0RC1int.md for details."  Unfortunately, this file cannot be located 
  in any of our new or old document stores and the trail goes cold.    
  
3.3  The work for [3] was performed in CVS branch Review-dts0100909056d.  Analysis
  of the history for key file ```Context Menu Entry Functions.xtuml``` indicates
  that this branch was handled at exactly the same time as the work called out
  in 5.1 and suffered the same fate.    
  
3.4  Without the file ```R3_7_0RC1int.md``` it is difficult to explain exactly
  what happened, but it seems that the R3_7_0RC2 branch was meant to be
  a re-application of the work for these two issues to the R3_7_0RC1 branch and
  in fact it actually un-did the work that had been performed and previously 
  promoted.  
  
4. Requirements
---------------
4.1  The fixes for [2] and [3] shall be reapplied, retested, and shown to work.  

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1  Find the implementation notes for [2] and [3].  Walk through the changed
  files lists and use the CVS file history to find the exact code changes 
  performed by the original work.  Re-apply the code changes to the git 
  development branch for this issue.  
5.1.1  Edit ```context_menu.pei.sql``` to remove Formalize and Unformalize as menu 
  entries that are valid for C_DG (Delegation) instances.  
5.1.2  Edit ```Context Menu Entry Functions.xtuml``` to edit the flow of the 
  if-block, reapplying the changes specified in [3].  

5.2  Add or update any of our test models or tests to apply the necessary testing
  as performed in the original issues.  
  
6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1  The original unit test changes added a new model name Delegation under
  core models.  Our git test model repository already had a model named 
  Delegation but it contained different model elements inside.  I modified the
  updated unit tests to use the model elements from the existing git model and 
  left the CVS model changes behind.  
 
6.2  The original unit test changes added a new zipfile-based model under 
  bp.core/models.  We do not use this form of models for testing any more for
  maintenance purposes.  Therefore, I extracted and upgraded the model to work
  with the latest BridgePoint and stored the model in our git models repository
  tracking the work with [4].
  
7. Unit Test
------------
7.1  Run all the Core tests

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 76_restore_fixes

```
M       src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core.test/arc/gen_Formalize_tests.arc
M       src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core.test/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/core/test/ComponentContextMenuTests.java
M       src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/models/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/ooaofooa/Functions/Context Menu Entry Functions/Context Menu Entry Functions.xtuml
M       src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/sql/context_menu.pei.sql
```

The changes to the xtuml/models git repository to add the new test model 
orphaned_ref_attribute are already merged.  

End
---

