
Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp. All Rights Reserved.
	
Incorrect Verifier behavior when starting multiple instances of identical configuration
xtUML Project Design Note

1. Abstract

A model with multiple components with internal structure is run in Verifier, only one of the nested components gets executed.
2. Document References

[1] Issues 1, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/73
[2] Issues 2, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/2
3. Background

In this section, outline the important points relating to this issue/bug that the reader would need to know in order to understand the rest of this document.
4. Requirements

This section is only required if there is no preceding analysis note. If present it describes the requirements that need to be satisfied. If there is an SRS, this section may simply refer to it. Each requirement should be as short and simple as possible and must be clearly defined.
5. Analysis

This section is only required if there is no preceding analysis note. If present it sets out a brief analysis of the problem to be resolved by this design note.

    Item 1
    Item 2
    Item 3

6. Design

In this section, describe in detail each step of the Work Required section of the analysis, how the task will be accomplished, what technologies will be used, algorithms, etc.

6.1 Some design point, with a code example

    public void clearDatabase(IProgressMonitor pm) 
    {
        // clear the corresponding graphics-root's database
        OoaofgraphicsUtil.clearGraphicsDatabase(rootId, pm);

        Ooaofooa.getDefaultInstance().fireModelElementUnloaded(this);
    }

7. Design Comments

If research carried out during this phase shows that a requirement stated in the analysis note is infeasible or needs some modification, enumerate those changes here. If there was no preceding analysis note, then this section documents any deviations from the design as presented at the design review.
8. Unit Test

Outline all the unit tests that need to pass and describe the method that you will use to design and perform the tests.
End
