---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Inconsistent display and interpretation of list of interface signal parameters through VIEC component
### xtUML Project Design Note

1. Abstract
-----------

  The list of executable property  parameters is inconsistently displayed in the 
  BridgePoint tool, namely between the model explorer, properties window, and in 
  canvas (the graphical representation of the interface).  This inconsistency 
  in the display leads to inconsistent and erratic interpretation and behavior.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 56, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/56

[2] ClearQuest DEI dts0100959004 - Inconsistent display and interpretation of 
	list of interface signal parameters through VIEC component

[2] ClearQuest DEI dts0101006628 - Properties view does not display parameters in 
	correct order 
	
3. Background
-------------
None.

4. Requirements
---------------

4.1 The mapping between executable property parameters and their values 
 in realized components shall not be affected if the the parameter ordering 
 is modified.   

5. Analysis
-----------

 Using a realized component, passing values to a list of parameters is working
properly as long as the user does not re-order the parameters in UML using 
the Move up/Move down CME labels. 
 
 If the user re-orders one or more parameter, and updates the realized java 
classes with the new order, values will not be passed to their proper 
parameters. This happens because the value/parameter mapping does not consider 
parameter reordering and keeps using the original order.
  
 This behavior is independent of the parameter order in the properties
view. A separate issue has been raided to address properties view issue [3] 



6. Design
---------

6.1 The defect lies in VerifierInvocationHandler.invoke(). The code takes the
  parameters in the order found in the execution database. 
  This is incorrect. Instead, it should find the first parameter based on the 
  ordering association R4021 and then traverse R4021 to handle the parameters in the 
  correct order.

7. Design Comments
------------------

None.

8. Unit Test
------------

8.1 Debug verifier tests must pass

8.2 Create a new test that passes a list of values to a list of executable property
  parameters that is reordered using Move Up/Move Down CME labels.  Then make a call
  through this interface and assure the parameters are passed correctly.
  

End
---

