---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# dts0101042220 - Referential attribute has wrong value in Variables view
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
Referential Attribute value is displayed in Variables views as "Unknown 
Runtime Value" instead of real value. This note describes how to fix it.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 182, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/182  
[2] CQ DEI dts0101042220 - Referential attribute has wrong value in Variables view  

3. Background
-------------
None.  

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Variables View shall display "not participating" as value for referential 
    attribute if not setup yet, and its value otherwise.

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1 Originally, Referential Attribute value is displayed in Variables views as 
	"Unknown Runtime Value", which is the default value when the code does not 
	a value for the selected variable, this happened because the code
	could not find a Runtime Value instance related with Referential Attribute.
	
	That can be fixed by checking if there is no related RuntimeValue with
	AttributeValue, then query for a Runtime Value instance in AttributeValue
	modelroot with ID which is obtained from AttributeValue::GetRuntimeValue() 
	operation.

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
None.

7. Unit Test
------------
7.1 Debug verifier suites must pass.  
7.2 Create new automated test that validate referential attribute value before
    and after setup.

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 182_dts0101042220_NM

<pre>

< Put the file list here >

</pre>

End
---

