---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Support element order merging
### xtUML Project Design Note

1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes the changes required to support element ordering in compare
and merge.

2. History
----------

3. Document References
----------------------
[1] CQ Issue dts0100970498 - Compare/Merge: Support element ordering
[2] CQ Issue dts0100970495 - Automated merge support  

4. Background
-------------
Currently the compare editor orders elements in the tree as they are in the
file.  This causes us to require the Previous attribute under the elements which
can be ordered by a reflexive association.  There are also reports that merging
is not working when dealing with the ordering.

5. Requirements
---------------
5.1 The compare editor shall order elements in the user-defined fashion matching
what is shown in Model Explorer.  
5.2 Merging of element ordering shall be supported.  
5.3 Support manual adjustment of element ordering in the compare editor.

6. Analysis
-----------
6.1 Tree order

The ordering in the tree shall be modified such that it honors the reflexive
ordering association.  When this issue is complete the ordering shall exactly
match what is in model explorer.

6.2 Merge support for ordering

Merge shall support order differences.  When merging a change from one side to
the other the tool shall replace the location of the destination element with
the selected difference's location.

6.3 Manual adjustment of ordering

The tool shall support changing an element's order in the compare tree for any
side that is writable.  This shall be through the move up and move down context
menu items.

7. Design
---------
7.1 Tree order

The inspector infrastructure currently supports ordering child elements.  There
is a bug in the archetype that generates the code that prevents registering all
ordered elements.  This bug is addressed by modifying the create_type_sorter
function in the create_metadata_elements_sorters.arc archetype such that a
newline is added for each function call.  Without this a comment for
non-externalized strings is added on the first call and all subsequent calls
that build the class contents are left after this comment.

In addition to the bug fix the entries in ooaofooa_hierarchy.pei.sql to support
previous elements are removed.  They are no longer needed as the differencing
engine will detect the order differences.  The differencing engine is modified
to configure the difference's matching difference as the matching element from
the other side rather than the one that is at the same location.

7.2 Merge support for ordering

Previous support for element order merging was handled by copying over the
previous element referential.  This was not favorable and did not work in all
cases.  A new type of merge is added which is positional change merging.  With
the differencing engine configured to create matching differences for the same
element on each side we can determine when this type of merge is required.  This
is done by looking at the element for the matching differences, where if they
are the same element we know its a positional change.  To handle merging this
situation a new method is added to the ModelMergeProcessor class,
handlePositionChange.  This method locates the desired location in the
destination and reconfigures the reflexive association to match the newly
required position.

7.2.1 MetadataSortingManager changes

To support a generic merge case the MetadataSortingManager is extended to add
the following methods:

isOrderedElement - Contains the list of elements that are ordered by a reflexive
                   association, and returns true if the passed in class matches
                   one of those  
getPreviousElement - Returns the previous element in the sorting association for
				     the given instance  
getNextElement - Returns the next element in the sorting association for the
                 given instance  
getAssociationNumber - Returns the sorting association's number for the given
					   instance  
getAssociationPhrase - Returns the sorting association's phrase for the given
					   instance  

To add these methods the create_metadata_elements_sorters archetype is modified.
Each method is generated using the configured data in the
ooaofooa_hiearchy.pei.sql file.  This data already existed and is unchanged for
this issue.

The generated methods are used to reconfigure the reflexive associations during
merge.

7.2.2 Address patch issue

A case was found where the sql parser was not handling the patch data that is
automatically inserted into the model files by GIT when a conflict is found.  To
address this the previous changes are removed and a simpler solution is applied.
The new solution is to simply define two tokens and set them to be ignored.
These tokens are:

PATCH_CONFLICT  
PATCH_CONFLICT_BACK_HALF

The first matches the opening patch statement and skips it.  The second matches
the data that is between the two statements that surround the remote data that
is conflicting.  This second piece of data is also skipped.  This allows the
tool to only import local data.

7.3 Manual adjustment of ordering

To support changing the order of elements manually two new actions are added to
the tree's context menus.  These are Move up and Move down.  These are filtered
based off of the following rules:

- Selection supports ordering (uses the isOrderedElement method from 7.2.1)
- The tree data is writable
- Element can be moved up or down (not at top or bottom of the list)

The actions use java reflection to call the moveUp and moveDown operations from
the ooaofooa classes.

7.4 Clear referentials on unrelate

MC-Java is currently caching the referential fields in the referring classes
upon unrelate.  Merge makes use of these cached values as the referred to
element may not exist locally, in which case a null value will always be
returned.  With the way MC-Java currently works the merge may end up writing a
value upon save that should be empty as it uses the cached value that was
updated during the unrelate.  This leaves the end result with a related element
that should not be.  To address this MC-Java is modified to clear all cached
values during the unrelate.

7.5 CLI Merge

An issue was found by the customer with the latest release.  The problem was
that in some cases the CLI merge action would not detect a conflict and allow
the merge to proceed.  Nothing would change in the file however GIT was told
that the merge succeeded.  The problem ended up being a timing related issue.
The expected return value of 1 was sometimes not getting set.  The actual code
that performed the merge was being called in a separate thread.  This was not
necessary for merge but the code was written using the other CLI functions as
an example.  CLI Merge is modified to run on the main thread only.  These
changes allow for [2] to be closed.


8. Design Comments
------------------

9. Work Required
----------------
See design section.

10. Unit Test
------------
10.1 Tree order

- Test that the tree order for all elements that can be order matches the
  reflexive association ordering
- Test that the differences match the same element on both sides

10.2 Merge support for ordering

- Test that copying a change from one side to the other causes the ordering to
  match in the destination
- Test that copying a positional difference where moving an element down from
  the top of the list adjusts the ordering appropriately
- Test that copying a positional difference where moving an element up from
  the bottom of the list adjusts the ordering appropriately  

10.3 Manual adjustment of ordering

- Test that each element type that supports ordering can be moved up and down
- Test that when an element is at the top of the list Move Up is not available
- Test that when an element is at the bottom of the list Move Down is not
  available
- Test that when an element is in a tree that is not writable that it cannot be
  moved up or down

10.4 CLI Merge (manual tests)

_- Create three files that would cause a conflict  
_- Run CLI merge on the three files  
_R A message is given that a conflict was found and that the merge was not
   performed
 
End
---

