
---

This work is licensed under the Creative Commons CC0 License

---

# Provide prototypes for specified issues
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

### 1. Abstract

This note describes the changes required to prototype each issue listed in the document references.  Where an analysis was previously performed it shall be followed.  In the case where an analysis was not performed this note may be used to aid in full analysis if required.

### 2. Document References

<a id="2.1"></a>2.1 [BridgePoint DEI #4896](https://support.onefact.net/issues/4896) Not possible to specify datatypes with the same name at different levels.  
<a id="2.2"></a>2.2 [BridgePoint DEI #5005](https://support.onefact.net/issues/5005) Ranges of data types.  
<a id="2.3"></a>2.3 [BridgePoint DEI #5106](https://support.onefact.net/issues/5106) Constant based on user data type.  
<a id="2.4"></a>2.4 [BridgePoint DEI #9050](https://support.onefact.net/issues/9050) Element order is inconsistent between ME and canvas for constants.  
<a id="2.5"></a>2.5 [BridgePoint DEI #4859](https://support.onefact.net/issues/4859) Class-based operations in a class are not clearly distinguishable from instance-based operations. They appear in the same way. In BridgePoint 6.1 they were underlined to distinguish them form instance-based operations. This is the UML standard notation.  
<a id="2.3"></a>2.6 [BridgePoint DEI #5035](https://support.onefact.net/issues/5035) Open source object when clicking on imported/delegated/referenced elements (classes, signals, operations) as for component references.  

### 3. Background

See issue database.

### 4. Requirements

4.1 Follow requirements of analysis where available.

### 5. Work Required

5.1 Scoped enumerations  

For this prototype the analysis was strayed from a bit.  There are a couple of reasons, one is that it is simpler to use the first collected data type for "closest to".  Another reason is that two types in two different packages should be unique.  And finally, to prevent true conflicts with types the tool is modified to disallow creation or renaming of types to the same name within the same package.  Older models that had conflicting type will have parse errors now.    

UIUtil.validateNameUsingRenameAction() is modified to check for naming conflicts on:

* S_UDT  
* S_EDT  
* S_SDT  
* CNST_CSP   

Naming conflicts are prevented during creation and renaming.  This is done in UIUtil.validateNameUsingRenameAction() and RenameAction.isNameValid().  Pre-existing conflicts will have had parse errors and not been executable.  Such models shall be left as is, leaving the integrity checker to warn of such issues.  

The function, Scoped_data_type_validate, is modified to only consider the first result in the search set.  The first instance found for either EDT or CSP are used.  In the case of both existing the EDT is given preference.

There is a problem that is not addressed by this work and would not be with the original analysis.  Getting rid of the parse issues is only one part of the overall scoping issue.  Id's of parameter types and return types are checked when set to an EDT.  Therefore, in the original test case the event parameters will still have to be set to the first in-scope EDT.  Without the parameters being set to the appropriate EDT this parse error is thrown:  

Incompatiable operands for relational expression  


5.2 Ranges for UDTs

5.2.1 Add Range class

A new class Range is added to the Domain package under ooaofooa.  This class has a conditional one to one relationship according to the analysis note for [2.2](#2.2).

A Rance may have a minumum and maximum value.  These are added as attributes min and max.  The new attributes are set as real to handle the full minumum and maximum values.  The UI handles validation with type determination, integer versus float.

This same change is made to both ooaofooa and mcooa.

With this new class the default Key Letters were used, Range.  There are two archetypes which do not match the generated form of Key Letter usage.  MC-Java generates key letters usage in different case.  These two archetypes did not do anything to the key letters:

referential_attribute_util.inc  
create_object_inspector.inc  

5.2.2 UI Range configuration

A new menu along with three sub menus are added.  These are:

* Range
* Range > Minimum...
* Range > Maximum...
* Range > Clear Range

The Range top level menu shows as long as the selection contians only UDTs that have a core type of integer, real or Enumeration Data Type.  The Clear Range menu item will only show as long as one of the selected User Data Types has a Range associated already.  The Range menu will not show when mixing integer or enumeration data type with real.  This is due to the fact that a real value can be invalid for an integer value.

The Minumum... and Maximum... menu items open an input dialog.  This dialog assures that the input value is valid.  In the case of integer the string value is parsed.  If a NumberFormatException is thrown a message is given indicating an invalid entry.  In the case of a float the value is parsed and the given float is checked for NaN and infinite exceptions.  The same message is given for the invalid float.

5.2.3 Add range data to compare and persistence

Three new entries are added to ooaofooa_hierarchy.pei.sql to cover external attributes for the UDT class.  An external attribute is used to display an attribute from another class under the one associated.  In this case the min and max values from the Range class associated with the User Data Type.  This change allows the range values to show in compare.  Note like Visibilty these are not available in the properties view.  More work is required to support such a change.

The file_io.pei and stream.pei data is modified to add a new child to User Data Type, Range.

5.3 Allow UDTs as constants  

To relax constant type assignment the canUseDataType() operation in Literal Symbolic Constant is modified.  The operation now checks that for an EDT or UDT.  In the case of a UDT the core data type is located recursively.  In all cases if the DT subtype is EDT the type is allowed for assignment.  The new OAL is below:  

```
	select one edt related by dt->S_EDT[R17];
	if(not_empty edt)
	  return true;
	end if;
    select one udt related by dt->S_UDT[R17];
    if(not_empty udt)
      coreId = udt.getCoreType();
      select any dt from instances of S_DT where (selected.DT_ID == coreId);
      select one edt related by dt->S_EDT[R17];
      if(not_empty edt)
        return true;
      end if;
    end if;
```

The class ConstanceValueInputValidator is modified to called the same recursion as above when dealing with a UDT.  

Verifier handles constants in all cases even for EDTs, no changes are required.  

q.val.translate.arc is modified to locate the constant enum value assigned and output the enum generated name.

```
    .select one edt related by te_dt->S_EDT[R17]
    .if ( not_empty edt )
      .assign enumString = edt.Name
      .select many enums related by edt->S_ENUM[R27]
      .for each enum in enums
        .assign enumString = enumString + enum.Name
        .if ( enumString == cnst_lsc.Value )
          .select one te_enum related by s_enum->TE_ENUM[R2027]
          .assign te_val.buffer = te_enum.GeneratedName
          .break for
        .end if
      .end for
    .elif ( 4 == te_dt.Core_Typ )
```

5.4 UI ordering of constants  

Sorting order is not supported in ME as it is not configured to do so.  To enable it the TNS.SortingRelationNumber and SortingRelationPhrase attributes must be set.  Even with setting this it will not work as the infrastructure does not support using an ordering association on an element other than the one represented by the UI.  Considering this work is to prototype, a work around is used.  The generated class once sorting is configured is modified by hand to traverse from the Literal Symbolic Constant to the Symbolic Constant for ordering.  The final solution for this shall modified the infrastructure to allow a sorting chain and generate code identical to that hand written code used here.  

The canvas is actually ordering as it should.  Ordering configuration is not supported in the UI currently as the infrastructure again does not support CME actions on elements which are not actually represented by the UI element.  The Symbolic Constant class has the necessary UI operations.  Copies of these operations which simply forward to the existing operations are added to the Literal Symbolic Constant class.  Another piece of the UI setup that is missing is the CME functions for move up and down.  These are added to call the added operations.  The last piece missing is the cme pei entries for move up and down as well as the filter pei data.  

5.5 Class Based operation indication  

Currently GEF does not support styled text, or at least not in a way that was easy to determine.  The default font does not support an underline in SWT.  JFace does however support styled text which supports the underline option.  However, this support only comes with a columned tree editor.  Considering that both Canvas and ME will require indication a general solution is to draw the line using the GC for each.  In the graphics this is done just after drawing the text if the text style is configured as Style::Underlined.  This operation get_text_style in the Operation class already returns this style for class based operations.  In the case of ME a new paintItem listener is added and the line drawn if the item data is an Operation that is class based.  

5.6 Declartion navigation  

Component references when double clicked open the component declaration.  This same support shall be added for the following:  

* Imported Class  
* Provided/Required signals  
* Provided/Required operations  
* Imported Provision  
* Imported Requirement  
* User Data Types  
* Literal Symbolic Constants  

To support this the recently added "Open declaration" support is re-factored.  The re-factoring moves the logic to show in the ME and Canvas to UIUtil.  This is now called by the open declaration action in ui.text as well as the EditorUtil.getElementToEdit() method.  The getElementToEdit() method is called by all open actions.  An additional method is added in UIUtil to take a referring element and locate the declaration.  This declaration is then shown in ME, Canvas or both.         

### 6. Implementation Comments

None.

### 7. Unit Test

7.1 Scoped Enumerations  
7.1.1 For UDTs, EDTs, SDTs and CSPs
7.1.R Cannot be named the same within the same package   
7.1.2 Create an EDT and a CSP in the same package  
7.1.2.1 Enter the EDT name in OAL: <edt_name>::  
7.1.2.R There is no parse error about duplicates  
7.1.2.1.1 Complete the statement <edt_name>::some_enum  
7.1.2.1.R There is no parse error about missing edt  

7.2 Ranges for UDTs   
7.2.1 Menu Item  
7.2.1.1 Selection (No previous range)  
7.2.1.1.1 UDT  
7.2.1.1.R Range > Minimum... available  
7.2.1.1.R Range > Maximum... available  
7.2.1.1.R Range > Clear Range not available  
7.2.1.1.1 Select Minimum...  
7.2.1.1.R Dialog opens with no value listed  
7.2.1.1.2 Select Maximum...  
7.2.1.1.R Dialog opens with no value listed  
7.2.1.2 Selection (Previous range)  
7.2.1.2.R Range > Minimum... available  
7.2.1.2.R Range > Maximum... available  
7.2.1.2.R Range > Clear Range available  
7.2.1.2.1 Select Minimum...  
7.2.1.2.R Dialog opens with previous min value listed  
7.2.1.2.2 Select Maximum...  
7.2.1.2.R Dialog opens with previous max value listed  
7.2.1.2.3 Select Clear Range  
7.2.1.2.R Range > Clear Range not available  
7.2.1.3 Selection (mixed integer and real)  
7.2.1.R Range not available  
7.2.2 Undo/Redo and Persistence  
7.2.2.1 Minimum  
7.2.2.1.1 Set minumum value  
7.2.2.1.2 Compare with local history  
7.2.2.1.R Minimum value is changed  
7.2.2.1.3 Undo  
7.2.2.1.4 Compare with local history  
7.2.2.1.R Minimum value reverted  

7.3 Literal Symbolic Constant UDT  
7.3.1 Where a UDT exists as: UDT > UDT > EDT  
7.3.1.1 Right click on an LSC and select Set Type...  
7.3.1.R The UDT is listed as a possibility  
7.3.2 Where an EDT exists  
7.3.2.1 Right click on an LSC and select Set Type...  
7.3.2.R The EDT is listed as a possibility  
7.3.3 Where an EDT is assigned to a constant  
7.3.3.1 Right click and select Set Value...  
7.3.3.2 Insert <edt_name>::<enum>  
7.3.3.R OK is allowed  
7.3.4.R Verifier compares a constant assigned to an enum properly with an EDT::Enum reference  
7.3.5.R MC-3020 generates enum string when a constant with an enum value is used in OAL  

7.4 Constant ordering  
7.4.R All tests from 2.4 note pass

7.5 Class based operation indication in UI  
7.5.1 ME  
7.5.1.R Instance Based operation appears unchanged  
7.5.1.R Class Based operation appears with an underline in tree  
7.5.2 Canvas  
7.5.2.R Instane Based operation appears unchanged  
7.5.2.R Class Based operation appears with an underline on canvas  

7.6 Declaration navigation  
NOTE: open is described as double click or cme Open  
7.6.1 Declaration table

Reference | Declaration | Decl. In ME | Decl. In Canvas  
Imported Class | Model Class | Yes | Yes  
Provision | Interface | Yes | Yes  
Requirement | Interface | Yes | Yes  
Imported Provision | Provision | No | Yes  
Imported Requirement | Requirement | No | Yes  
Provided Signal | Interface Signal | Yes | No  
Provided Operation | Interface Signal | Yes | No  
Reqiured Signal | Interface Signal | Yes | No  
Required Operation | Interface Operation | Yes | No  
Component Reference | Component | Yes | Yes  
User Data Type | Core Type | Yes | Yes  
Literal Symbolic Constant | Value Type | Yes | Yes  

7.6.1.1 Open reference  
7.6.1.R Declartion is shown according to table

### 8. User Documentation

User documentation was not changed as part of this work.  

### 9. Code Changes

Fork/Repository: https://github.com/travislondon/bridgepoint  
Branch: 4896_5005_5106_9050_4859_5035_Prototypes 

<pre>

doc-bridgepoint/notes/4896_5005_5106_9050_4859_5035_Prototypes/
    4896_5005_5106_9050_4859_5035_Prototypes.md
doc-bridgepoint/process/Developer Getting Started Guide.md

MC-Java/referential_attribute_util.inc

org.xtuml.bp.core/arc/create_core_plugin.inc
org.xtuml.bp.core/arc/create_metadata_elements_sorters.arc
org.xtuml.bp.core/arc/create_object_inspector.inc
org.xtuml.bp.core/models/org.xtuml.bp.core/ooaofooa/Constants/
    Literal Symbolic Constant/Literal Symbolic Constant.xtuml
org.xtuml.bp.core/models/org.xtuml.bp.core/ooaofooa/Domain/Domain.xtuml
org.xtuml.bp.core/models/org.xtuml.bp.core/ooaofooa/Domain/Range/Range.xtuml
org.xtuml.bp.core/models/org.xtuml.bp.core/ooaofooa/Functions/
    Context Menu Entry Functions/Context Menu Entry Functions.xtuml
org.xtuml.bp.core/models/org.xtuml.bp.core/ooaofooa/Functions/
    OAL Validation Functions/OAL Validation Functions.xtuml
org.xtuml.bp.core/sql/context_menu.pei.sql
org.xtuml.bp.core/sql/ooaofooa_hierarchy.pei.sql
org.xtuml.bp.core/src/org/xtuml/bp/core/sorter/.gitignore
org.xtuml.bp.core/src/org/xtuml/bp/core/sorter/
    LiteralSymbolicConstant_cSorter.java
org.xtuml.bp.core/src/org/xtuml/bp/core/ui/.gitignore
org.xtuml.bp.core/src/org/xtuml/bp/core/ui/ConstantValueInputValidator.java
org.xtuml.bp.core/src/org/xtuml/bp/core/ui/actions/RangeAction.java
org.xtuml.bp.core/src/org/xtuml/bp/core/ui/actions/RangeContributionItem.java
org.xtuml.bp.core/src/org/xtuml/bp/core/util/EditorUtil.java
org.xtuml.bp.core/src/org/xtuml/bp/core/util/UIUtil.java

org.xtuml.bp.io.mdl/sql/file_io.pei.sql
org.xtuml.bp.io.mdl/sql/stream.pei.sql

org.xtuml.bp.ui.canvas/src/org/xtuml/bp/ui/canvas/Gr_c.java
org.xtuml.bp.ui.canvas/src/org/xtuml/bp/ui/canvas/ModelContentOutlinePage.java
org.xtuml.bp.ui.canvas/src/org/xtuml/bp/ui/canvas/util/GraphicsUtil.java

org.xtuml.bp.ui.explorer/arc/create_explorer_view.inc
org.xtuml.bp.ui.explorer/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
org.xtuml.bp.ui.explorer/sql/UITree.pei.sql

org.xtuml.bp.ui.graphics/src/org/xtuml/bp/ui/graphics/actions/
    OpenGraphicsEditor.java
org.xtuml.bp.ui.graphics/src/org/xtuml/bp/ui/graphics/editor/
    GraphicalEditor.java
org.xtuml.bp.ui.graphics/src/org/xtuml/bp/ui/graphics/outline/
    GraphicalOutlinePage.java

org.xtuml.bp.ui.session/arc/create_SessionExplorer_view.inc

org.xtuml.bp.ui.text/src/org/xtuml/bp/ui/text/activity/
    OpenDeclarationAction.java

</pre>

Fork/Repository: https://github.com/travislondon/mc  
Branch: 4896_5005_5106_9050_4859_5035_Prototypes 

<pre>

mc/arc/q.val.translate.inc
mcooa/models/mcooa/ooaofooa/Domain/Domain.xtuml
mcooa/models/mcooa/ooaofooa/Domain/Range/Range.xtuml

</pre>

### End

