---

Copyright 2012 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

xtUML Project Implementation Note
Enhance Model Compiler Tracing Capability

1. Abstract
-----------
A customer has requested the addition of inter-component message tracing.
This note describes the design and implementation of this enhancement.

2. History
----------

3. Document References
----------------------
[1] ClearQuest Issue dts0100930597 - Enhance model compiler tracing.
[2] The document in github:
https://github.com/xtuml/docmg/blob/master/development/notes/dts0100930597/dts0100930597int.md
[3] xtuml/agilegc issue #42 - https://github.com/xtuml/agilegc/issues/42

4. Background
-------------
MC-3020 already supports state transition tracing and action language
tracing.  It is a nice addition to have inter-component message tracing.
This tracing will show messages and their passed parameter values.

5. Requirements
---------------
5.1    Trace messages sent at the port boundary.
5.2    Trace messages received at the port boundary.
5.3    Trace the parameter values for both sent and received messages.
5.3.1  When parameter types are core types or enumerated types, then
       the values of those parameters shall be traced.
5.3.2  Arrays, structured data types and non-native types should not be
       traced.
5.3.3  For arrays, structured data types and non-native types, a place-
       holder shall be shown in the trace to indicate the position of
       the value.
5.4    Output XML in a comment, so it is easy to extract and use as input
       to a trace log formatter.
See [3].

6. Work Required
----------------
6.1  Add a marking function to the domain.mark.
6.2  Add metamodel attributes to TE_ABA and TE_MACT.
6.3  Add the tracing function to t.sys_trace.h.
6.4  Generate the tracing invocations in t.component.message.c.

7. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
7.1  While working on this issue, it was brought to my attention that
     the generated code for TIM::timer_cancel is incorrect when tasking
     is enabled.  The code takes the TIMER mutex and holds it while it
     is finding and deleting the cancelled timer.  However, it keeps holding
     the mutex while it deletes the event associated with the cancelled 
     timer.  Note that deleting an event requires a separate mutex.
     MC-3020 has a policy to never request/hold more than one mutex at
     a time.  So, this code was refactored to delete the timer, release 
     the timer mutex and then delete the event.
7.2  While working on this issue, it was brought to my attention that
     the array specs are not being propagated correctly.  This was
     fixed in q.val.translate.arc and opens the door to future vector
     arithmetic.

8. Unit Test
------------
This is a manual test.
8.1   Run github.com/xtuml/models/VandMCtesting/ttt with tracing turned on.
8.1.1 Turn tracing in domain.mark with:
      .invoke MarkMessageTracingOn( "*", "*", "*" )
8.1.2 See "COMP" macros in the c1.c, c2.c and c3.c files.
8.2   Run github.com/xtuml/models/VandMCtesting/ttt with tracing turned off.
8.2.1 See _no_ "COMP" macros in the c1.c, c2.c and c3.c files.
8.3   Run github.com/xtuml/models/VandMCtesting/ttt with tracing turned on
      for only one component.
      .invoke MarkMessageTracingOn( "c1", "*", "*" )
8.3.1 See "COMP" macros in only the c1.c file.
8.4   Run github.com/xtuml/models/VandMCtesting/ttt with tracing turned on
      for only one component and one port.
      .invoke MarkMessageTracingOn( "c1", "catch", "*" )
8.4.1 See "COMP" macros in only the c1.c file and only in the s1 and s2
      messages.
8.5   Run github.com/xtuml/models/VandMCtesting/ttt with tracing turned on
      for only one component and one port and one message.
      .invoke MarkMessageTracingOn( "c1", "catch", "s1" )
8.5.1 See "COMP" macros in only the c1.c file and only in the s1 message.

9. Code Changes
---------------
branch [git]xtuml/models/VandMCtesting/ttt cds_trace_test_1

arc/m.domain.arc
arc/q.class.poly.arc
arc/q.mc_metamodel.populate.arc
arc/q.parameters.arc
arc/q.smt.generate.arc
arc/q.val.translate.arc
arc/specialized/q.component.arc
arc/specialized/q.components.arc
arc/specialized/q.mc3020.arc
arc/specialized/sys.arc
arc/specialized/t.component.message.c
arc/specialized/t.component.messages.c
arc/specialized/t.component.module.h
arc/specialized/t.sys_tim.c
arc/sys_util.arc
arc/t.class.op.c
arc/t.smt.c
arc/t.sys_trace.h

head [cvs]
model_compilers/schema/sql/xtumlmc_schema.sql


End
---

