---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Title goes here
### xtUML Project Review Minutes

Reviewed:  

https://github.com/xtuml/internal/blob/Review-dts0100970501/doc-internal/notes/28_dts0100970501/28_dts0100970501_int.md

7586ab47

Present:  Keith, Bob, Travis

<pre>

-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment
x- 01  min   bob  3      The background only focuses on a specific problem, merge related, that was behind this.
                           However, this tool has been talked about a very long time.  While not all aspects of an integrity tool are addressed here, this does provide the foundation for those other things,
						   and so those things should be called out and referenced in the background.
x- 02  min   bob  5.1      note that these were added under a new subsystem
x- 03  min   bob  4        Note: Any model integrity issues as defined in the google doc.  
                           Reference the documents
o- 04  maj   bob  5.1.2   Why not implement this with encapsulation?

			I prefer the pattern where the integrity check in encapsulated into the Integrity Manager (IM) class .  You then end up with:
			IM.checkAssociation
			IM.checkInterfaceOperation
			IM.checkPort
			...
			(thus all this functionality is encapsualted into the Integrity Manager instead of being sread across the ooaofooa)_- 05  min   xxx  xxx      xxx
			
			There could be an interface and each intergity check would then define a class that implements that interface.  This could be added to the editor and users could extend it!
			
	Travis : Issue 41 raised	
o- 05  min   bob  5.1.2      Make these self-documenting.
			Example: For every type of integrity check there should be an associated description that is returned
			by a call.   This could be controlled usng an enum that defines all the integrity checks.
			There can be 1 operation, getDescrition(enum IntegrityCheckType) that returns the description for each integrity check.
	Travis : Part of raised issue 41
x- 06  maj   keith  5.1.2   Describe why we check the signature and not just the name.  Isn't this language dependant?
    Traivs : Discussed in engineering chat, we want to allow signature definitions to include parameter types.
x- 07  min   bob  5.2.1      danling -> dangling
                             There is also a formating issue here:
 							 Element Name: param Element Path: ModelIntegrityTests::Operation Parameter Tests::Class::Operation::param
x- 08  min   keith  5.2.2      note that it does support select/copy
x- 09  min   keith  5.4       Move 5.4 to section 6
x- 10  min   bob  7      There should be a test for every <blah>.checkIntegrity() implemented.  There is, just 
                           describe it.
x- 11  min   Travis  5.2.1   For dnagling referneces the name is coming in as the path, and it should just the the name.

===============================================================================

Code Review Obserations:
Branch: Review-dts0100970501
Tags Diff'd: 3569e80 vs 4402771

x- 1  min   bob  In MergeWorkbenchAdvisor.java::printWarning, add a parameter to 
                 pass-in more information about the element that failed
x- 2  min   TRL  When reviewing bp.core.../Association.xtuml::checkIntegrity 
                (actionSemantics) it is observed that the comment is not properly 
				colored by the editor (raise an issue)
				Issue 42 raised.
x- 3  min   SKB  When reviewing bp.core.../Association.xtuml::checkIntegrity 
                 (actionSemantics) it is observed that the id sys_id is there 
                 but not used.  Travis points out a reason why it is present.  
                 Add  a comment so that someone doesn't delete this.
	  Travis : The id is actually used, no comment added.
      Note: this pattern is repeated in the other places too, so we should 
            repeat the comment as needed.

x- 4  min   bob  Add the signature to the error message in 
                 bp.core.../Interface Operation.xtuml::checkIntegrity


x- 5  min   bob  "count" is not being incremented in 
                  bp.core.../Interface Operation.xtuml::getSignature().  
	
	  Note: Since getSignature is repeated this problem will be in the other 
	        getSignature implementations.

x- 6  min   bob  Raise an issue to make the compare editor come up for action 
                 Semantics of an operation instead of making the user go to the 
                 Action Semantics field

x- 7  min   bob  Get rid of the checkIntegrity in the Constant Specification.xtuml, 
                 and in Symbol Constant.xtuml expand the search to be all 
                 constants in the same package regardless of the specification 
                 they are under.

x- 8  min   bob  In Package.xtuml::hasRealizedComponents a fix was put in place 
                 for an NPE.  This could be hit by right-clicking a package.  
                 Check to see if there is already an issue for this, and if not, 
                 raise one that we will close with this issue. 
	 Travis: Issue dts0100999414 raised.
	 
x- 9  min   bob  Remove External Entities.xtuml::runIntegrityCheckOnElement.  
                 It is not being used.

x- 10  min   bob  Add a comment in IntegrityManager.xtuml::createIssue to 
                  describe why the blind select is safe there.

x- 11  min   bob  Put text phrases on the new R1301 association

x- 12  min   bob  Add a class comment (description) to IntegrityChecker class just 

x- 13  min   TRL  Dispose the issues created and the manager created in 
                  IntegrityChecker::IntegrityIssue_c

x- 13  min   TRL  While reviewing IntegrityChecker Travis observed that we need 
                  to verify that instances created by the Integrity Checker and 
                  the Integrity Manager are being disposed.

x- 14  min   bob  in IntegrityChecker::createReportForIssues add a severity 
                  string of "Unknown" for the default case.

x- 15  min   bob  Add a comment to the implementation note that describes what 
                 the customer can look for after a CLI merge to assure there are no integrity issues.
	             Example: "No Issues Found" or Error
	             The customer will need to know this for their scriprt.
	             
x- 16  min   bob  Add a preference to CLi merge to disable the integrity check.  
                  This is added just in case we hit a situation where there are 
                  false positives.   Add this to the CLi help menu too.	

x- 17  min   bob  In CLI and UI call integrity checker to get the report, 
                  it should do all the work.

                           

</pre>
   
Major observations were recorded, a re-review is required.


End
---
