---

Copyright 2013 xtUML.org

---

xtUML Project Review Meeting Minutes

Reviewed: dts0100629397.ant (1.9)
Present:  Heba, Bob, Dean, Campbell

<pre>
-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment
_- 01  min   RM   2        History missing
_- 02  min   RM   3        raise git issue and reference here
_- 03  min   CM   Gen.     Move this document to git
_- 04  min   RM   5.1.3    Add reference to disambiguate 'As above'.
_- 05  min   RM   5.1.6    Typo 'promoted' -> 'prompted with'.
_- 06  min   CM   5.1.6    Reword this section to read more clearly.
_- 07  min   CM   5.3.1    Duplicate sections, second should be 5.1.3.
_- 08  min   RM   Gen.     Design document must specify exact requirements
                           for the work this cycle.
_- 09  min   RM   5.4.3    Renumber section to be 5.4.2.1.
_- 10  min   RM   5.4.4    Suggested rewording below.
_- 11  min   CM   5.4.4.1  Typo: 'Analyzes' -> 'Analyse'.
_- 12  min   CM   5.4.4    Specify that Verifier can own the time resource,
                           as opposed to some other client.
_- 13  min   CM   5.4.4    Typo: 'rules are mapping' -> 'rules for mapping'.
_- 14  min   CM   5.4.4    Review indentation and hierarchy of rule list.
_- 15  min   CM   5.4.4    All signal names within an SVX channel must be
                           demonstrably unique following the rules.
_- 16  min   RM   5.4.4.2.2  Reword this section.
_- 17  min   RM   5.4.4.2  Delete unwanted digit.
_- 18  min   CM   5.4.4.2  Typo, 'then a core' -> 'than a core'.
_- 19  min   RM   5.4.4.2  Reword last paragraph of section to 'finish the
                           thought'.
_- 20  min   CM   6, 7     Remove these sections.

*
5.4.4 Aggregation of SVX signals into xtUML messages.
As explained in [5.4.2], xtUML messages, both signals and interface operations,
require edge detection. For each xtUML message, the user should be able to specify
what form that detection takes and on which SVX signal the detection is to be 
performed. Similarly, a mapping needs to be specified between SVX signals and xtUML
parameters. In the case of parameters, the values passed shall be the last sampled
SVX signal value at the moment the edge detection trigger criterion was met.
</pre>
No major observations, a re-review is not required.

---
End

