---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Problems with Audit Realized Bindings
### xtUML Project Review Minutes

Reviewed:  https://github.com/xtuml/internal/blob/44_audit_fixes/doc-internal/notes/dts0100939989_44/dts0100934989_44_dnt.md
ef20bf090ebaad0680914ad7f198e64a2774129c

Present:  Campbell, Keith, Bob

<pre>

-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment

x- 01  min   CMC  6.1      See if the ".add" pushes to the front or back, we would like it to be pushed to the front of the collection

x- 02  min   CMC  6.2      Why was the map created locally if it was never necessary?
                           Keith looked at the orginal implementation and also looked at the orginal design note
						   and didn't find a good reason to keep it.
						   
						   Campbell suggests running audit during verifier execution.  He thinks that may be the reason.  However, 
						   regardless of the outcome we think this solution is good.
						   
x- 03  min   bob  6.2.2      The map is static, add this to "private class member".  This means the fact it is private, while important is not the only important thing to consider.  It will hold it's value across invocations.

x- 04  min   skb  7.1      CorePlugin.logError is going to the log.  Keith suggests some should go to the console.
                           Agreed, these are appropriate for these errors are console.

x- 05  min   CMC  7      Add a try/catch to catch for the situation where a dialog does not appear.  Perhaps simply 
                           catch "throwable".
						   The theory is that the
                         reason it doe not appear is that an exception is being thrown that is being caught and handled 
						 silently or not caught (we did not get an error log).  

</pre>
   
No major observations, a re-review is not required.


End
---
