---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Support class definitions shared between components
### xtUML Project Analysis Note

1. Abstract
-----------
A customer has asked for the ability to define classses outside of components.
The common definitions can thus be shared by allowing reference to them from
inside components, which remain the single unit of execution.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] http://dtsweb.wv.mentorg.com/cqweb/#/dtr01/dts01/RECORD/dts0100992921&format=HTML&recordType=Defect


3. Background
-------------
Currently, BridgePoint supports the definition of classes within components
only. Since components are black boxes, classes defined in one component are
invisible to classes in another. This note discusses the requirements for
removing this limitation.

4. Requirements
---------------
The requirements are broken into two sections. The first section sets out the
requirements as called out in the issue[1]. The second describes an extended
set of requirements proposed by the global sales team.

4.1 Basic requirements

4.1.1 Classes defined in packages outside of a component shall be supported.

4.1.2 The imported class wizard shall be extended to show all classes visible
      from the location of the imported class. The list shown in the wizard
      chooser shall include classes defined outside of any component.

4.1.3 The parser shall be modified to allow references to any model element
      visible from the scope of action being parsed. The term model element
      includes (but is not limited to) classes, attributes, operations,
      associations and events.

4.1.4 Verifier shall execute action language that references classes and
      other model artifacts defined outside a component.

4.1.5 Each component shall have its own instance extent for shared classes,
      so instances of classes are never shared. A class instance that is
      passed in a message from one component to another is passed by value
      by default. While instance passing by reference is supported, it is
      poor practice to allow one component to change the internal state of
      another by means other than exchanging messages. However no attempt
      shall be made to detect such behavior by the parser or by Verifier.

4.1.6 Classes defined outside a component may not refer to any port or
      interface associated with a given component (BUT see following section).

4.2 Extended requirements

4.2.1 Classes defined outside of a component may refer to a "port reference".
      Note that this requirement overrides much of 4.1.6. Note that references
      to interfaces shall still be disallowed. The current practice of
      referring to interfaces rather than specific ports shall be considered
      deprecated going forward.

4.2.2 Groups of classes may be reused as a unit in multiple components by
      allowing the user to map a port reference to a specific port in their
      container component.

4.2.3 Messages arriving at the concrete port are delivered to the shared
      class in the same way as they would if the class were modeled wholly
      within the container component.

5. Analysis
-----------
TBD.

Note specifically that the notation for the concept of a "port reference" is
undedefined at the time of writing. The term "port reference" may not best
describe the concept. It is even undecided if graphical notation is needed.
There is no obvious mapping to standard UML. The definition and management of
the "port references" and mappings could instead be managed entirely in the
BridgePoint user interface.

6. Work Required
----------------
TBD.

7. Acceptance Test
------------------
TBD.

End
---

