---

Copyright 2012 xtUML.org

---

xtUML Project Design Note

C_SF instances are missing in generated SQL from BP350 model built in BP360

1. Abstract
-----------
In this section, give a summary of the design that this note aims to
describe.

2. History
----------


3. Document References
----------------------

[1] ClearQuest Issue dts0100931558

[2] ClearQuest Issue dts0100911027
    Satisfactions are persisted in the wrong place.

4. Background
-------------

In BridgePoint 3.6.0 a change was made to fix a problem with persistence of
satisfactions [2].  The problem that was resolved by [2] was that Satisfactions 
(C_SF) and the associated Provision (C_P) and Requirement (C_R) proxies were 
persisted in the package file of the component.  The fix associated with 
[2] changed this so that they would be persisted in the package file 
of the component or component reference that actually depicts the 
connected provision/requirement.

After release of 3.6.0 a problem was found in this fix.  This issue is raised
to isolate and resolve this problem.

5. Requirements
---------------
5.1 Model update code introduced to support the change made for [2] shall
    account for the fact that the new C_SF instance home may be of a different
    type then the source home.
    
    For example, the new C_SF instance home may be a EP_PKG.
    

6. Analysis
-----------

The model upgrade code introduced by [2] in 
ImportHelper.java::fixSatisfactionAssociations() made a bad assumption that 
the destination C_SF instance would be of the same type as the source.  In 
models where this was not the case the C_SF instance is being deleted.


7. Design
---------

7.1  Rework ImportHelper.java::fixSatisfactionAssociations() to allow for the 
     fact that the new C_SF persistence home after this upgrade may be a 
     C_C  OR a EP_PKG.  
     
	Prior to this change the upgrade code was making the assumption that the 
	new C_SF home would be of the same type as the starting C_SF home, and in 
	cases where it was not, the old satisfaction was removed but the new one 
	was not created

7.2 In ImportHelper.java::fixSatisfactoinAssociations(), 
    at the spot we are unrelating the old persistence home, add code to 
    assure that one of the possible new target homes is not null.  
    
    This is done to assure that a new home has been selected prior to this 
    unrelate.  Without this in place what is happens is that we  
    disconnect satisfactions that have already been successfully upgraded.

8. Design Comments
------------------

None

9. Work Required
----------------

Described above.

10. Unit Test
------------
10.1 Assure that the model is updated properly.

_- start with a simple BP3.5.0 model that has the following form:

    * library_package::<c_c1 and c_c2 live here as does an interface, if1>
    
    * use_package::<outer_compoent>::<C_IC-1 and C_IC2 live here and 
    
    * are connected and formalized to if1>

_- Search the “*.xtuml” files for “into c_sf” to find all instances of c_sf

_R The result is that you will see 2 “hits”.  The C_SF instance is  persisted 
   in library_package.xtuml and a c_sf_proxy is persisted in 
   outer_component.xtuml.

_- Now exit and open this same model in BP 3.6.0.  After opening use the 
   BridgePoint Utilities > Load and Persist utility to force all “model upgrade” 
   changes to be persisted.

_- Search the “*.xtuml” files for “into c_sf” to find all instances of c_sf

_R The result is that you will see 1 “hit”.  The C_SF instance is  
   persisted in outer_component.xtuml.  

   * Note here that prior to the fix the result was that you would see 1 “hit”.  
   The C_SF_PROXY instance is persisted in outer_component.xtuml.  
   The C_SF instance iself had been deleted by the model upgrade code.
 

End
---

