---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Remove dependence on .project from "CLI Build-prebuildOnly"
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
The -prebuildOnly flag used by CLI should not modify the .project file.  

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 201, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/edit/master/doc-internal/notes/201_dts0101052473/201_dts0101023973_remove_.project_dependence.int.md
    This github issue is being used for both CQ issues.  It was initially tied
    only to dts0101047282 [2].  However, the customer tested and found that issue
    was resolved in release candidate 4.1.9, but with that issue
    resolved they ran into the headline issue for this note, dts0101023973 [3].

[2] ClearQuest Issue dts0101047282
    Implement CLI Build as truly headless

[3] ClearQuest Issue dts0101023973
    Improve Builder settings file handling for use in distributed RCS

[4] ClearQuest Issue dts0101052473
    Determine if the bp.cli plugin should be included in the xtUML Editor

3. Background
-------------

A change was made to the tool to assure that the "CLI Build -prebuidOnly"
option will not require a DISPLAY when running on a linux machine [2].  That
change was needed because some build server have no DISLPAY, and even though
the tool was running in what appeared to be "headless mode", it did still use a 
workbench.   The use of the workbench caused graphics libraries to be used that 
are not available on some build servers.   The change for [2] resolved that 
issue.  However, once that issue was resolved by assuring that the -prebuildOnly
option would no longer use graphics is was found that when using-prebuildOnly 
the .project file was being modified during a run that used -prebuildOnly.
This modification is not acceptable to the customer, and therefore it must be 
resolved before [1] can be fully resolved.


4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 When "CLI Build -project <name> -prebuildOnly" is called it shall not
    modify the ".project" file.
    
4.2 Continue to use the project's build chain when -prebuildOnly is not 
    specified.

5. Work Required
----------------

Modify bp.cli/Build* to no longer use the workspace's build chain (found in the
.project file) when processing the -prebuildOnly option.   

5.1 Modify BuildWorkBenchAdvisor to no longer modify the build chain to 
disable all builds except the Export Builder.

5.2 Modify the BuildWorkBenchAdvisor.java::prebuildOnly() function to call 
the export builder directly instead of relying on the eclipse build chain.  Note
that DocGen already does this, so follow the docgen lead.

5.2.1 An effect of this is that, like DocGen, the bp.cli plugin shall now be 
dependent on the bp.mc.c.binary model compiler.  The reason for this is that in
order to create a concrete ExportBuilder class one must have a specific Model
Compiler.  However, since in this case it is only being used for the atomic
license associated with the Export Builder it does not matter which MC is used.
The binary MC is selected because it is always included anytime a user 
purchases any MC.

5.3 In order to find the SystemModel_c instance of the model that needs to be
exported, the prebuilder must initialize the PersistenceManager.  It is 
possible for the PeristenceManger initialization to throw an exception.  To 
handle this exception gracefully in CLI, a constructor overload shall be added
for BPCLIException, BPCLIException(String, Exception).  The implementation
simply defers to the Exception superclass.

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
none

7. Unit Test
------------
7.1 Verify that the .project file is not modified

http://dtsweb.wv.mentorg.com/cqweb/#/dtr01/dts01/RECORD/dts0101051872&noframes=true&format=HTML&recordType=Defect

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 201_removeDotProjectDependence

<pre>

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.cli [internal 201_removeDotProjectDependence]/META-INF/
    MANIFEST.MF
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.cli [internal 201_removeDotProjectDependence]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/cli/BPCLIException.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.cli [internal 201_removeDotProjectDependence]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/cli/BuildWorkbenchAdvisor.java

doc-internal [internal 201_removeDotProjectDependence]/notes/201_dts0101023973/
    201_dts0101023973_remove_.project_dependence.int.md
doc-internal [internal 201_removeDotProjectDependence]/notes/201_dts0101047282/
    201_dts0101047282_Headless_Prebuilder.dnt.md



</pre>

End
---

