---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# UnsatisfiedLinkError in Verifier
### xtUML Project Implementation Note
 

1. Abstract
-----------
When running with external user supplied java, it is possible to encounter a 
class loading problem which manifests as an UnsatisfiedLinkError.



2. History
----------



3. Document References
----------------------
[1]  ClearQuest Issue dts0100942790  

[2]  ClearQuest Issue dts0100965186 get the whole Suspend/Resume/Terminate code 
                                    reviewed and refactored.  
                                    
[3]  ClearQuest Issue dts0100965186 dts0100965985 test UnsatisfiedLinkError in
                                    Verifier.  


4. Background
-------------




5. Requirements
---------------
5. When running with external user supplied java, then terminating and relaunching 
any component instance, no class loading problem manifests as an UnsatisfiedLinkError. 


 
6. Design
----------------
6.1 The root cause of this problem is that when a terminate is called using 
    a component instance in debug view tree the call to resetting the 
    class loader wasn't made, hence the class loader wasn't reset.
  
6.2 Call the resetClassLoader() method while terminating the BPThread. 

6.3 Move the resetClassLoader() method to BPThread class as opposed to 
    the BPDebugTargetClass and modify it to be public.

6.4 Modify the resetClassLoader() call made in the BPDebugTarget.terminate()
    to be done using the BPThread instance. 
         


 
 
7. Work Required
----------------
7.1 stated in the design section
7.2 raise an issue to get the whole Suspend/Resume/Terminate code reviewed and refactored.
    Its messy and that is why we are having repeated problems in this area. [2]



8. Implementation Comments
--------------------------


9. Unit Test
------------
9.1 Run Verifier test suite  

9.2 [3]   
   _- Import Existing project 
       com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui.test/models/dts0100942790.zip into workspace  
   _- Launch verifier      
   _- Execute a signal "To"  
   _- In Debug view Select the Component instance App in the debug tree  
   _- Right Click > Terminate and relaunch   
   _- Execute a signal "To"  
   R- No Errors Show in the debug window    


10. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: R3_6_5-HKA-dts0100942790 (Branch)

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui/src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui.model/
    BPDebugTarget.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui/src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui.model/
    BPThread.java
 
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui.test/models/dts0100942790.zip
 




End
---

