---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Honor user-defined order in realized bridges
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes the changes required to honor user-defined ordering of
bridge parameters when calling realized bridges during verification.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 153, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/153  
[2] CQ Issue, dts0101023147  

3. Background
-------------
Customers have reported a case where verification of a realized bridge operation
results in parameters being passed in an incorrect order.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 User-defined ordering of parameters shall be honored when executing realized
    bridge operations.

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1 Honor user-defined ordering during realized bridge operation execution

When gathering the values to pass to a realized bridge operation we iterate over
all parameters that are children of that operation.  This is done using a for
loop and processes the array of children in order of creation.  R55 exists to
allow user-defined ordering of bridge parameters.  The code that is setting the
values to pass to the realized operation does not use R55 to cover ordering.
This code is modified to get the first bridge parameter and process the
parameters in a while loop.  The while loop is exited when there are no
succeeding parameters.

5.2 Support user-defined ordering in the properties tree

BuildPropertySource.arc is modified to make use of the generated sorting classes
found in bp.core.  The property source classes are configured to create an
instance of MetadataSortingManager, then call sort on all child references after
obtaining the list of children.  This sorts the child array.  This will sort the
properties tree in the exact manner that the model explorer tree is sorted.

5.3 Update built-in EEs

Now that we honor the user-defined parameter ordering during realized code
execution, some of our built-in EEs have bridges that have parameter ordering
issues with the realized java classes.  Each of these classes are compared with
the corresponding model EE and adjusted to account for any differences.

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1 Remove PropertiesTest class

The PropertiesTest class is a supertype to most of the properties test classes.
This class does the necessary log file existence checking, but also extends
BaseTest.  BaseTest also does this checking and does it more efficiently.  All
test classes changed are modified to remove extending this class and instead
extend BaseTest directly.  The PropertiesTest class is also removed.

7. Unit Test
------------
_- Create a project with a component with a nested package   
_- Add a function to the package   
_- In the created function add:   
    LOG::LogInfo(message:TEST::concat_string(s1:"Hello, ", s2:"World!"));   
_- Add the built-in EEs   
_- Create an EE TEST   
_- Add a bridge operation concat_string   
_- Add a parameter to the operation named s2   
_- Add a parameter to the operation named s1   
_- Move s1 to be before s2   
_- Open the properties view for the bridge operation   
_R The children parameters are listed with s1 first   
_- Create a java realized version of the EE   
_- Add the concat_string() method to the java class   
_- Set the body of the method to:   
	return s1 + s2;   
_- Launch verifier on the component, enabling "Log model execution activity"   
_- Execute the function  
_R The output text should read:   
    "Hello World!"   

_- Run verifier test suite 1   
_R All tests pass   

_- Run verifier test suite 2   
_R All tests pass   

_- Run properties test suite   
_R All tests pass   

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 153_dts0101023147

<pre>

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core [internal 153_dts0101023147]/models/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/ooaofooa/Value/Bridge Value/Bridge Value.xtuml
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core [internal 153_dts0101023147]/src/lib/TIM.java

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui.test [internal 153_dts0101023147]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/debug/test/RealizedClassTest.java

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.properties [internal 153_dts0101023147]/arc/
    BuildPropertySource.arc

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.properties.test [internal 153_dts0101023147]/arc/
    create_readonly_view_test.arc
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.properties.test [internal 153_dts0101023147]/arc/
    create_view_test.arc
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.properties.test [internal 153_dts0101023147]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/properties/test/DeleteUDTWithPropertyShowing.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.properties.test [internal 153_dts0101023147]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/properties/test/EnumRangeTest.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.properties.test [internal 153_dts0101023147]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/properties/test/IsAllowedTypeTest.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.properties.test [internal 153_dts0101023147]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/properties/test/NumberRangeTest.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.properties.test [internal 153_dts0101023147]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/properties/test/PropertiesTest.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.properties.test [internal 153_dts0101023147]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/properties/test/PropertiesViewTest2.java

doc-internal/notes/153_dts0101023147/153_dts0101023147.int.md

</pre>

End
---

