---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# License check during project create wizard actually checks out licenses
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
The BridgePoint New Project Wizard is checking out licenses at the point in 
time where it populates the dialog with model compiler choices.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] ClearQuest Issue dts0100992904
[2] Issues 24, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/24
[3] ClearQuest Issue dts0100993209 
    Add support for core_Mheap_exists to the Mentor Java Licensing Component 
    (JLC)
    
3. Background
-------------
A customer suspected that BridgePoint was checking out a license when it should
not have.  Investigation found that this was indeed true.  The problem is that
BridgePoint uses he Mentor Graphics JLC and the call made to check the license
was actually checking out the license and putting it right back (it WAS checking
it out).

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 The xtUML Editor shall never check out a license.

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1. Changed the implementation of testLicense() to
use JLC.heapCandidates() instead of JLC.checkHeap().  JLC.checkHeap()
was actually checking out the license (for about 1ms).  The license team
tells us that JLC.heapCandidates will not check it out.  This new
function returns a list of candidate licenses that could be used for a
given atomic.

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1 Renamed the BridgePointLicenseManager.java::testLicense() function to 
    licenseIsAvailable(), and introduced a new function named licenseExists() 
    that contains the new JLC.heapCandidates() call to check for license 
    availability without checking out the license. I added comments to these 
    function to describe them.  All places in the code that were previously 
    using testLicense() were modified to now call licenseExists() instead.  
    These changes were just made to help make it clear what the code is doing.
    
6.2 Removed editor license tracking.  The code to do this tracking was not 
    insignificant, we are not actually using the tracking, and in the face of 
    the problem found ( #24 ) we have decided that it is not worth the trouble 
    and risk, no matter how small of a license problem related to this editor 
    usage tracking.  If we ever decide to put it back we can.  
    Here are the changed files:
	src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/core/common/TransactionManager.java
	src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/core/util/BridgePointLicenseManager.java
	src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.core/arc/gen_import_java.inc
	src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.core/arc/import_functions.inc
	src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/io/core/CoreImport.java
	
    The git sha id for this change is: 4ec966adfadb4565a73ced8390a1893d553f68a3
    
7. Unit Test
------------

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 24_rwm-3

$ git diff --name-only origin/master

doc-internal/notes/dts0100992904_24/dts0100992904_24int.md
src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/core/common/TransactionManager.java
src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/core/ui/preferences/ExportPreferences.java
src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/core/util/BridgePointLicenseManager.java
src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.core/arc/gen_import_java.inc
src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.core/arc/import_functions.inc
src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/io/core/CoreExport.java
src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/io/core/CoreImport.java
src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.mc.mc3020/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/mc/mc3020/MCBuilderArgumentHandler.java
src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.mc/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/mc/MCBuilderArgumentHandler.java

End
---

