---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Port BridgePoint source models to Generic packages
### xtUML Project Design Note

1. Abstract
-----------
We need to migrate the BridgePoint metamodel to generic packages. This note tracks the required work.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Clearquest issue dts0101077921 - Port BridgePoint source models to Generic packages

[2] Issues 2, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/263  

3. Background
-------------
We are migrating BridgePoint to an open source environment. The open source editor is restricted in what it can do with Specific Package models, so we need to port the BridgePoint source models to Generic Package s so that the wider community can edit them.

4. Requirements
---------------
1. MC-Java needs to be changed to work with Generic Package models.
2. The BridgePoint build infrastructure must be changed to work with Generic Package models.

5. Analysis
-----------

5.1 Scope

This work makes the build environment produce a good working copy of BridgePoint from models converted to Generic Packages. If possible, no other changes will be made to the BridgePoint meta-model by this work. It follows from this statement of scope that this work does not remove Specific package support from BridgePoint. All it does is to move the BridgePoint source and build infrastructure to Generic Packages. After this work is complete, the BridgePoint developers are no longer dependent on Specific Package functionality, so Specific Package support can be scheduled for removal.

5.2 Work required

A key meta-model element associated with specific packages is Domain (S_DOM). There are 79 references to it in workspace RSL files (i.e. files with arc and inc extensions). Another key meta-model element is Subsystem (S_SS). There are 50 references to this element in workspace RSL files. Many of these references will require no action because they (for example) hook up context menu entries with the Domain or Subsystem. However every one of the references needs to be assessed to see if it needs to change.

6. Design
---------
6.1 Convert all source models to generic packages

This change is responsible for the bulk of the delta for this job. As was hoped, no other changes other than the package style are required to any of the source models. Test models in specific packages remain as specific packages. Since these models are designed to test specific package behavior, these need to stay in place until support for specific packages is removed. The converted models are:

- bp.als/grammar
- bp.core/context_menu
- bp.core/ooaofooa
- bp.core/ooaofooa_hierarchy
- bp.core.test/consistencyTest
- bp.core.test/DeleteTestModel
- bp.core.test/FormalizeUnformalizeTests
- bp.core.test/FormalizeUnformalizeTestsWithPrefix (? already upgraded ?)
- bp.io.core/file_io
- bp.ui.canvas/ooaofgraphics
- bp.ui.tree/UITree

The method used to upgrade was to use a text editor to modify the root model package xtuml file of each project and change the persistence version in the first line of the file from 7.1.6 to 7.1.5. This triggers the automated file upgrade process which then shows a dialog showing the relevant models which require upgrading. Conversion to generic package format is subsequently automatic.

6.2 MC-Java changes

Outside of model data upgrade, the largest set of changes are to the MC-Java BridgePoint production model compiler. Almost all changes are switching from selecting an S_DOM instance to finding the root generic package which replaces it in the upgraded model data. The changes are shown in the order found by the branch compare utility for ease of reference with this document.

6.2.1 arch_utils
- get_domain_name is obsolete and is replaced with get_root_pkg_name.
- notifies_changes is modified to work with packages and packageable elements instead of domains and subsystems.
- check_subsystem_for_notifies_changes has its name changed to check_pkg_for_notifies_changes. Functionality is changed to reflect this.
- get_context_for_statement is changed to work with packages and packageable elements instead of domains and subsystems.
- gen_parameter_list is modified to take a root_pkg_name argument and to recursively pass this to gen_value (see [6.2.2] for why this is needed).
- is_persistent is modified to work with packages and packageable elements instead of subsystems.

6.2.2 java.arc

This is changed to work with  packages and packageable elements instead of domains and subsystems. gdn_result (get_domain_name) is changed rpn_result (root_package_name) in all places. Calls to translate_all_oal are changed to take the name of the root package being built as a string argument. This value is passed recursively down all oal translation call trees as required. This was done because the alternative would have been to compute the value where it was needed. This is done in so many places that it was felt that computing it would adversely affect build times.

6.2.3 schema_gen.arc

This is changed to work with packages and packageable elements instead of domains and subsystems.

6.2.4 statement.inc

Many functions in this file are changed to recursively pass the root package name down the call tree (see [6.2.2] for why this is needed).

6.2.5 translate_oal.inc

Many functions in this file are changed to recursively pass the root package name down the call tree (see [6.2.2] for why this is needed).

6.2.6 value.inc

Many functions in this file are changed to recursively pass the root package name down the call tree (see [6.2.2] for why this is needed).

6.2.7 verify_selects.arc

This is changed to work with packages and packageable elements instead of domains and subsystems.

6.2.8 build.xml

This is modified to add a dependency on file_io.schema to the generate-with-file_io.java. This dependency is moved from core and simplifies the build process. At the same time, the parameters passed to generate-with-file_io.java are simplified by removing redundant arguments. The 'generate_schema' target is modified to pass the root package name. This is now required because generic package models no longer have a unique domain instance as before, so we need to identify which of several potential root packages is the required one to begin generating schema from.

6.2.9 ooa_schema.sql

Because we are now traversing a generic package copy of the source model, the ordering of the elements in this file is substantially different. It is logically identical to the previous revision. It is anticipated that this is the second to last time this file will change significantly. From now on, changes will reflect only edits to the source ooaofooa model. The final significant delta will come when specific package elements ae removed.

6.3 Other RSL file fallout

As anticipated in the Analysis section. the bulk of the RSL changes are to move frome searching for S_DOM instances to finding the root package of each model.

6.3.1 bp.als/arc/validate_gen.arc

This file is modified  to work with packages and packageable elements instead of domains and subsystems. The call to translate_all_oal is modified to pass the root package name (see [6.2.2]).

6.3.2 bp.core/arc/create_context_manus.arc

This file is modified  to work with packages and packageable elements instead of domains and subsystems. The call to translate_all_oal is modified to pass the root package name (see [6.2.2]).

6.3.3 bp.core.test/arc/create_context_manu_tests.arc

This file is modified  to work with packages and packageable elements instead of subsystems. 

6.3.4 bp.io.core/arc/class2table.arc

This file is modified  to work with packages and packageable elements instead of domains and subsystems. 

6.3.5 bp.io.core/arc/export_functions.inc

This file is modified  to work with packages and packageable elements instead of domains and subsystems. 

6.3.6 generate_metamodel_compare_test.arc

This file uses the susbsystem key_letter prefix in the function is_excluded. Since packages do not have a prefix attribute, the function is changed to use the full package name.

6.4 ant script changes

In several projects, building failed because with generic packages, the (now) global built in data types are not extracted during the xtuml_cleanse_for_BridgePoint step. We may wish to consider modifying this utility to extract the global data types, but for now, we temporarily copy the Globals.xtuml data file from bp.pkg/globals, perform the cleanse build step and remove it again.

6.4.1 bp.als/generate.xml

This file uses the Globals workaround described above and is also modified to pass the required root package to use when building from the source model.

6.4.2 cp.core/generate.xml

This build script was modified to remove a dependnecy on bp.io.core. The dependency was moved to MC-Java, since the 'generate-with-file_io.java' target there is where the dependency really needs to be. The global data types workaround described above is used in the 'cme' target. This workaround is not required for the java target because its input is created by the pre-builder which includes the required globals data. The 'schema' and 'cme_schema' targets are modified to pass the required root package for the schema. The java target is modified to used the simplified parameter passing described in [6.2.8]. The 'inspector' target requires the globals workaround described above. 'inspector_schema' is modified to pass the name of the required root package.

6.4.3 bp.core.test/generate.xml

This script requires the global data modification for the 'sql' target. The 'schema' target needs the root package name to be passed. 

6.4.3 bp.io.core/generate.xml

This script requires the global data modification for the 'sql' target. The 'schema' target needs the root package name to be passed. the ant useNativeBaseDir is set to false on the 'schema' target, otherwise ant attempts to use the MC-Java project folder when building the file.io schema needed by MC-Java. This change forces ant to build the required schema file in place in the bp.io.core project where it belongs.

6.4.4 bp.ui.canvas/generate.xml

This script is changed to use the globals workaround in the 'sql' and 'inspector.sql' targets. The 'schema' target is modified to pass the required root package. The 'inspector.schema' target now passes the required root package name.

6.4.5 bp.ui.properties.test/generate.xml

The 'ooaofooa_schema' and ooaofgraphics_schema' targets are modified to pass the required root package name.

6.4.6 bp.ui.tree/generate_schema.xml

This is modified to use the globals workaround described above. The 'schema' target needs to supply the required root package name.

7. Design Comments
------------------
7.1 Converting source models to generic packages

It was noted that the upgrade process left specialized Datatype packages in the roots of many projects. Since this may well be an artifact of the manual change to the file persistence version, and specialized packages are no longer user visible and will soon be removed entirely, it is suggested that no further action is needed beyond manually deleting the surplus packages.

8. Unit Test
------------
All JUnit tests must pass.

End
---

