---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# ToolTip multiple windows feature is broken
### xtUML Project Implementation Note


1. Abstract
-----------
  During the BP4.1.10 release, a fix for an IllegalArgumentException was introduced in 
dts0101051962. This fix broke the tooltip multiple windows feature.  
This note describes how to fix this.  

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 222, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/222  
[2] CQ DEI dts0101052889 - ToolTip multiple windows feature is broken  
[3] CQ DEI dts0101051962 - Hover over Port or  State machine small icons on   
	class model, then move mouse away from tooltip, cause internal NPE  
[4] CQ DEI  dts0101050637 - Tooltip Manual Test  

3. Background
-------------
   During the BP v4.1.10 release testing, issue [3] was found and fixed.
  Unfortunately, the fix resolved the problem but broke the multiple tooltip 
  windows feature.

   Issue [3] reports an internal IllegalArgumentException when the mouse hovers 
  on text based elements  associated with Associations, Transitions, Informal
  messages, etc.
  
   The eclipse design for ToolTip Helper (the object responsible to manipulate 
  the tooltip figure) assumes that there be a single helper for each graphical
  editor. Each time the graphical element has a tooltip figure, Eclipse invokes 
  the helper object with the graphical element source and the tooltip figure 
  objects.

   In BridgePoint ToolTip Helper design, the helper is associated with its 
  graphical source element. i.e. for a single graphical editor, there are a 
  number of tooltip helpers objects (created when needed).  The number of these 
  is equal to the number of canvas elements with tooltip figures associated. 
  When the mouse hovers over a canvas element, the associated helper will be 
  created (if it does not exist yet) and invoked.
 
  This design allows the tool to support multiple tooltip windows, as the helper 
 can maintain only single tooltip window visible at a time, and listening to its
 actions such as close and update.
 
  In addition to these helpers, there is a default tooltip helper that is used 
 when mouse hovers over any empty canvas area, or any canvas element without a 
 detailed tooltip window which are Ports, ISM and CSM icons, as these elements 
 do not have a detailed tooltip window, a single helper -default helper- is only 
 used.  

 Currently the elements supporting the detailed tooltip window are:
 - DecoratedPolylineConnection represents line shaped elements such as 
 connectors and associations.  
 - ShapeImageFigure:  represents box shaped elements such as components and 
 model classes.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Tooltip feature shall not cause any execution exceptions.  

4.2 User Shall be able to open more than one tooltip window at the same time.  

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1 The fix done in [3] replaced getCursorTarget() with getMouseTarget() in  
  getToolTipHelper() in GraphicalEditor file.

   The justification for that change was that getCursorTarget() returns the 
  exact object under the mouse cursor, which will be in this case : TextFlow
  object. On the other hand, getMouseTarget returns the semantic/logic 
  object under the mouse cursor which will be in the case of floating text a 
  DecoratedPolylineConnection object.
  i.e. getMouseTarget() contains logic to determine the suitable object to 
  return.  
	
	
   This change caused the tool to use the default helper for all canvas elements 
  as getMouseTarget() returns null, as BridgePoint implementation for
  findMouseEventTargetAt() method that return the logical element under mouse
  in extended TextFlow class and DecoratedPolylineConnection does not exist.
	
	
   Since a single helper is used for all elements, the multiple windows feature
  got broken.  

   In order to resolve this, the changes in [3] shall be rolled back, which 
  means we must provide another fix for that issue.  

5.2 The elements with  a line graphical representation  with floating text-e.g. 
  Associations- are represented with two different classes, a 
  DecoratedPolylineConnection object for the line, and a TextFlow object for 
  the floating text.  

   When mouse hovers on the floating text, getCursorTarget() returns a TextFlow
  object, and since it is not supported, the default helper is used instead of 
  the helper associated with DecoratedPolylineConnection instance.  

   To prevent this, when getCursorTarget() returns TextFlow, we need to query
  for DecoratedPolylineConnection related for the same element in order
  to user the right helper instead of the default helper.  

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1 In order to help user to identify which tooltip window belongs to which
	canvas element when multiple tooltip windows is opened, Focus Listener for
	the text field in the windows is implemented to highlight the source canvas
	element when user clicks on the description text.  

7. Unit Test
------------
7.1 Run manual test [4].  

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 222_dts0101052889_NM

<pre>

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.graphics [internal 222_dts0101052889_NM]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/graphics/editor/GraphicalEditor.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.graphics [internal 222_dts0101052889_NM]/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/graphics/tooltip/DetailedToolTip.java



</pre>

End
---

