---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Show relationship direction in session explorer
### xtUML Project Review Minutes

Reviewed:  https://github.com/xtuml/internal/blob/132/doc-internal/notes/132_dts0100836686/132_dts0100836686.dnt, f26a190d55  
Present:  TL, KB, BM  

<pre>
DNT Review

-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment
x- 01  min   CM   8        Make sure we test all relationship types, not just reflexives.  See if we are covered or need to add more testing.
       TL: Adequate testing is already in place, the observation was to make sure we test the instance populations.  These are tested
           in the verifier audit tests.
x- 02  min   TL   8        For all the OAL in the test cases, the text phrase should be 'start', not 'end'



Code Review (20140116 - Keith, Bob, Travis)
------------

x- Relate and Unrelate::Relate::execute
   Move the 2 new if blocks into the existing blocks that test the same condition

x- Relate and Unrelate::Relate Using::execute
   Check for the same change as requested in Relate::execute (see if we can refactor to test for empty just 1 time)
   TL : Chose not to refactor, the rest of the code does not require it and the instances should never be empty.  
x- Relate and Unrelate::UnRelate::execute
   Add back the if not_empty(destination) before dispose (just to be safe)
   
x- Relate and Unrelate::UnRelate Using::execute
   Add back the if not_empty(destination) before dispose (just to be safe)
   
x- ExecuteAction.java
   Rename "element" to "selectedElement" to help make it clear why it is needed

x- Run a simple CLI execute test (just use GPS Watch) to assure the changes didn't break CLIExecute.

x- SessionExploreTreeViewer.java::findItemsContainingText
   Add a comment that if the string is not found it could cause an infinite loop...  Add a high-limit value to break the recursive calls.

</pre>
   
No major observations, a re-review is not required.


End
---
