---

Copyright 2012-2013 xtUML.org

---

xtUML Project Review Meeting Minutes  

<pre>

Reviewed:   https://github.com/xtuml/internal/blob/153_dts0101023147/doc-internal/notes/153_dts0101023147/153_dts0101023147.int.md
          610ead8a488e96a747902073ae95a7341260ece2
Present:   Keith, Bob, Travis

-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment
x- 01  min   SKB  5.2      This will sort the tree > This will sort the properties tree  
x- 02  min   bob  xxx      This will break existing models if move-up/move-down was used.
                           This warning needs to be put in the release notes.  Write the release note
						   for this.
						   Travis will pass this to Keith and he will keep track of it to assure it gets into
						   the notes.
						   Also put this in the BridgePoint chat to warn people.
x- 03 min    TRL           UnitTest Properties test changes are related to a class that was removed.  Make an 
                            implementation comment for this.
   
No major observations, a re-review is not required.  

Code Review (branch 133_dtsdts0101023147:
------------
x- BridgeValue::getValue() there is a TODO comment that does not have to do with this issue, but is troubling.  
   Travis will ask Campbell about it.
x- BridgeValue::getValue() In the changed code the statement to "select one parm related by parm->S_BPARM[R55.'precedes'];"
   we result in an empty param is there is only 1 param.  This won't hurt right now because "param" isn't used 
   anywhere else, but rename this variable to make it clear.
x- BridgeValue::getValue() Investigate the text phrase (precedes) used.  Travis thinks it is not consistent.
   TRL: The selection statement is correct.    
x- Update the copy of bp.test in doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/development-workspace-setup/dropins 
   from 1.1.0 to 1.2.1   

</pre>

End
---
