---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Provide Utility to Change Model Compiler After Project is Created
### xtUML Project Review Minutes

Reviewed:  https://github.com/xtuml/internal/blob/177_mc_switcher/doc-internal/notes/177_dts0101004964/177_dts0101004964_dnt.md
           1c270d5d1407964576b673cdfd04f26cbfb7c3c4  
Present:  Bob,Cort,Travis,Keith

<pre>

-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment
x- 01  min   TRL  general      Consider allowing "none" as an option in the utility.  If it is not 
                               easy raise an issue to allow the user to select "none" otherwise do it.
x- 02  min   SKB  general      Add a note to release notes that tells user they must use this utility if using mc3020
x- 03  min   TRL  general      Raise an issue to introduce a MC-Java plugin (like our other MC plugins).  We
                               could potentially use this in our builds.
x- 04  min   TRL  general      Raise issue to remove the XMI plugin, or fix it.
x- 05  min   TRL  4.7.1      change this: Set Model Compiler
x- 06  min   SKB  6.4      Change to be consistent with the name change specified for 4.7.1
x- 07  min   bob  8        include  > included 
x- 08  min   all  8.1      we decided to leave old files in the .externalToolBuilders folder.  Add this info to the note
x- 09  min   SKB  8      add test that turns off MC-licensing and make sure that, that one doesn't show
o- 10  min   SKB  8      add test to assure that the "current" MC does not show up in the list:
         --perhaps disable the option if there are no other choices, or maybe allow the current MC to still be listed
         --"none" may be an option
         --consider the xtuml editor in the choice

Code Review of branch 177_mc_switcher (Travis,Bob,Keith)
--------------------------------------
x- Investigate adding the xtUML nature on the project if it is not already present when the switcher is run.
   
x- In the MCNewPRojectWizard classes where we are now making a call to "removeAllMCNatures" we should 
   add a comment that states that in the case of the NPW there will be no natures to remove the code is for 
   the Switcher.

x- SwitchProjectModelCompilerWizard.java::SwitchProjectModelCompilerWizard() - Account for the introduction of "none" as an option.  In the Editor we want "none" to be selected and no menu selection to appear, in the switched we 
want the "none" optoin to appear even if there are no other options.  To do this, remove the else if and change the "if (mcis.length > 1)" to always show the page (example: if (mcis.length >= 1))

x- Some file headers are missing on new files, add them.

x- consolidate findBuilder and findAndRemoveBuilder as much as possible

x- Run the new plugin checklist for bp.mc.none

x- update the instructions for building the editor to no longer leave the binary MC

x- There is a TODO to take care of that is currently left mc.none

x- Note that mc.none and mc.mcpass are both "special" and can't be blindly regenerted.
   The template was written in a way that relied on the fact that they could be recreated.
   Modify the template instructions to call out that these 2 have been "special cased" and 
   can not be regenerated.
   
</pre>
   
No major observations, a re-review is not required.


End
---
