---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Verifier doesn't correctly preserve invocation stack when used in pseudo recursive fashion 
### xtUML Project Design Note



1. Abstract
-----------
When executing 'pseudo recursive' function (repeated invocation of the same 
function on different instances of the same class) Verifier doesn't correctly 
preserve invocation stack. This results in incorrect behavior. 

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 160, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/160  
[2] CQ issue dts0101022652 - Verifier doesn't correctly preserve invocation 
	stack when used in pseudo recursive fashion  

3. Background
-------------
None.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Verifier must preserve correct instance reference values in the recursion 
	stack.

5. Analysis
-----------
5.1 After checking the model provided by customer to reproduce the bug, it is 
	found that the description of the issue is not accurate. The verifier 
	preserves invocation stack well, but while deleting an instance variable 
	that has different references in recursion stack, the wrong reference is 
	deleted in the top-most stack. This causes the following error when accessing this 
	instance reference while returning in the recursion :
		 "Referenced instance, < variable_name > is already deleted".
		 
5.2 Looking inside the Delete::Execute() operation close to the beginning, the 
	problem is obvious. The code gets ANY local reference for the 
	instance variable related with the delete statement regardless of 
	which stack frame this local reference resides in.
	
	In order to resolve this, the code shall select the local reference that
	resides in the stack frame that has same id  as the stack frame id passed as 
	argument to the Delete::Execute() statement.
	
5.3 A further investigation is made for all different statements (Relate, 
	Relate Using, Unrelate, Unrelate Using, Select, Select Related by, Create,
	etc) at code and model execution levels to make sure that they do not have 
	the same issue, and no issues were found.

6. Design
---------
6.1 In Delete::Execute(), use the stack_frame_id parameter to select the
	local reference related with the variable to be deleted.

```OAL
Before: lines 6,7
	select any loc_ref related by instHandle->L_LCR[R3004];
  	if (not_empty loc_ref)

After:
	
	select any loc related by instHandle->L_LCR[R3004]->L_LCL[R3001] where (selected.Stack_Frame_ID == param.stack_frame_id);
  	select one loc_ref related by loc->L_LCR[R3001];
	if (not_empty loc_ref)
```

7. Design Comments
------------------
None.

8. Unit Test
------------
8.1 Verifier test suites must pass.  
8.2 Steps provided in [1] must not reproduce the problem.  
8.3 Add new junit test class to test delete model class instance in recursion
   stack.

End
---

