---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

#  Provide Utility to Change Model Compiler After Project is Created
### xtUML Project Design Note


1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes the design of a utility that allows users to switch the model 
compiler associated with a project.  

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 177, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/177    
[2] CQ DEI dts0101004964 - Provide utility to change Model Compiler after project is created   
[3] CQ DEI dts0100962274 - Test and document recommended approach for xtUML Editor to Model Compiler flow  
[4] Issues 136 - Stop shipping heritage mc3020 plug-in  

3. Background
-------------
BridgePoint currently has the user select which model compiler he wants to associate
with a project at project creation time.  xtUML Editor does not give the user any 
choice.  

For the Indus release, we are removing the old MC-3020 build plug-in [4].  Customers
that currently use this builder need an upgrade path to one of the new-style model
compiler plug-ins.  

A utility that allows the user to switch the MC associated with a project will fulfill
the needs presented by both use cases.  
 
4. Requirements
---------------
4.1  BridgePoint shall provide a utility to switch the MC associated with a project.  
4.2  The switcher utility shall be able to add a model compiler to a project created
  with xtUML Editor.  
4.3  The utility shall remove references to the deprecated XMI Export nature and builder.  
4.4  The utility shall allow the user to switch from his current MC selection (old MC-3020
  or new-style) to any other new-style option he is licensed for.  
4.5  The utility shall allow the MC switch to happen regardless of the enabled or 
  disabled state of the current MC or pre-builder.  
4.6  BridgePoint Help shall be updated with usage instructions for the utility (to resolve [3]).  
4.7  The utility shall be available from any project navigation view (i.e. Project 
  Explorer and Model Explorer at a minimum).  
4.7.1  The utility shall be launched via the project context menu under 
  "BridgePoint Utilities > Set Model Compiler".  
  
5. Analysis
-----------
5.1  The MC switcher utility has needs that are similar to the model compiler
  selection during the new project creation wizard.  We can piggyback our 
  existing code and extend it as necessary to implement the required "switch"
  functionality.  
  
6. Design
---------
6.1  Introduce a new action in the top-level bp.mc plug-in that is tied to the 
  context menu entry "BridgePoint Utilities > Set Model Compiler".  
  
6.2  Introduce a new wizard in the top-level bp.mc plug-in that implements our 
  existing DelegatingWizard infrastructure.  This will allow us to hook into the 
  existing model compiler selection page.  
6.2.1  The new wizard will rely on the existing code that presents a page that 
  shows the list of model compilers the user is licensed for.  
6.2.2  The existing MC selection already knows how to add the requested MC 
  nature and builders (pre-builder and MC itself) to a project.  
6.2.3  Extend the existing MCs to remove existing model compiler nature and 
  builders before adding itself as the new nature and builders.  During new
  project creation, no previous MC nature and builders will exist, so this removal 
  is a no-op.  
  
6.3  The new function to remove existing natures (and builders) removes:  
  - nature matching ```.*bp.+mc.*MC.*Nature```  
  - nature matching ```.*bp.+mc.*XMIExportNature```  
  - builder matching ```.*bp.+mc.*export_builder.*```  
  - builder matching ```.*externalToolBuilders.*Model Compiler.+launch.*```  
  - builder matching ```.*bp.+mc.*XMIExportBuilder.*```  
    
6.4  Add documentation to "Help > BridgePoint UML Suite Help > Reference > Translation Reference > Setting the Model Compiler"  

7. Design Comments
------------------
7.1  When the user switches from old MC3020 model compiler, the ```.externalToolBuilders/MC-3020 Model Compiler.launch```
  file will not be removed on disk.  
  
7.2  If the user has disabled the pre-builder in the properties, then runs this utility, the
  launch file eclipse created in ```.externalToolBuilders``` for this disabled builder will
  not be removed on disk.  
  
7.3  A new model compiler is introduced with this work.   The "None" model compiler
  will show up in the MC selection during New Project Wizard as well as the 
  Set Model Compiler wizard.  When selected during the New Project Wizard, the
  project is created without any model compiler or CDT bits.  Specifically, no 
  MC or CDT builders or folders on disk are created.  When the user uses the 
  new utility to "Set Model Compiler" to "None", BridgePoint will remove the MC 
  pre-build and translate builders, but leave all the CDT-related bits alone.  
  MC-None will not remove anything from disk or delete or turn off CDT builders.  
  
8. Unit Test
------------
Test setup:  [4] was promoted to git master in early Feb 2014.  Therefore, developer
workspaces should no longer include this plug-in.  Just to be sure, check that the 
the com.mentor.nucleus.bp.mc.mc3020 is not included as part of the test environment.  

8.1  In the following test scenarios, the following test steps apply:
  - Open < project >/.project
  - Inspect the current MC builders and nature
  - Run "Set Model Compiler"
  - Choose an MC, click Finish
  - __R__ The .project contents are changed to reflect the new MC.  The old MC is no longer referenced.
  
8.1.1  Import a project created with xtUML Editor.  Run test switching to C++ source.  
8.1.2  Import a project created with old MC-3020 (contains mc3020 and XMI natures & builders).  Run test switching to SystemC source.  
8.1.3  Create project "foo", select C binary MC.  Run test switching to C source.  
8.1.4  Select "foo".  Run test switching to C++ source.  
8.1.5  Select "foo".  Run test switching to SystemC source.  
8.1.6  Select "foo".  Run test switching to VHDL source.  
8.1.7  Select "foo".  Run test switching to None.  
8.1.8  Select "foo".  Run test switching to C binary.  
8.1.9  Select "foo".  Open properties, disable builders "Model Compiler Pre-Build" 
  and "Model Compiler".  Run test switching to C++ source.  
8.1.10  Import a project created with old MC-3020 (contains mc3020 and XMI natures 
  & builders).  Open properties, enable the two builders "Invalid External Tool Builder", 
  disable "Model Compiler Pre-Builder".  Run test switching to C binary.  

8.2  Make sure one of the MCs is unlicensed.  Run the "Set Model Compiler" utility and
  verify that the unlicensed MCs do not show in the selection list.  
  
8.3  Create new xtuml project "bar", select "None" during MC selection.  Inspect the contents
  of the created project on disk.  It contains only a models/ folder and .project file.  Inspect
  the .project file contents, there are no builders and there are no MC or CDT natures.  
           
End
---

