---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# The 'Allow operations inside where clauses of select statements' preference is 
ignored when in a plug-in customization file
### xtUML Project Implementation Note


1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes the fix for an issue with the preferences initialization 
file as well as additional code cleanup in preference handling while addressing
the original problem.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 63, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/63  
[2] CQ DEI dts0100942776 - The 'Allow operations inside where clauses of select statements' preference is 
ignored when in a plug-in customization file  
[3] CQ DEI dts0100696825 - Restore Defaults do not work properly for all Preference  
[4] CQ DEI dts0100897201 - Preferences dialog is not always updated via "OK"  
[5] CQ DEI dts0100732333 - BridgePoint Preference changes do not persist if the preference page is changed before saving  

3. Background
-------------
BridgePoint has a number of preferences that are given default values in the
```com.mentor.nucleus.bp.pkg/plugin_customization.ini``` file.  A customer 
discovered that when they tried to set the preference that controls "Allow
operations inside where clauses of select statements", the setting did not
actually take effect.

A number of issues ([2], [3], [4], [5]) with the preference handling have been 
created by engineering and by customers in the past.  These issues are addressed
with the code cleanup done for this issue.

4. Requirements
---------------
This section is only required if there is no preceding design note. 
If present it describes the requirements that need to be satisfied.  If there 
is an SRS, this section may refer to it.  Each requirement should be as short 
and simple as possible and must be clearly defined.

5. Work Required
----------------
Elaborate on each point of the Work Required section of the design note and
describe how you implemented each step.  
If there is no design note, this section, breaks out the consequential work 
(as a numbered list) needed to meet the requirements specified in the 
Requirements section.

5.1. Item 1  
5.2. Item 2  
5.3. Item 3  

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
If the design cannot be implemented as written or if it needs some modification,
enumerate the changes to the design in this section.  If there was no preceding
design note, then this section documents any deviations from the implementation
as presented at the pre-implementation engineering review.

7. Unit Test
------------
Outline all the unit tests that need to pass and describe the method that you
will use to design and perform the tests.

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: <enter your branch name here>
Enumerate all the files that have been modified while you worked on this issue.

End
---

