---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

### xtUML Project Design Note
# Address possible deadlock running models that use the Verifier Interface to
External Code (VIEC)

1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes a fix to prevent deadlock under certain circumstances when
both components are realized with user supplied java classes.

2. History
----------

3. Document References
----------------------
[1] ClearQuest DEI dts0100924661 - Possible deadlock running VIEC.

4. Background
-------------
This issue was reported by a customer trying to communicate between two realized
components. The test model would sometimes run but at other times would hang.

5. Requirements
---------------
#5.1 Verifier should execute any mixture of realized and modeled components
without hanging the models.

6. Analysis
-----------
The problem was traced to a classic deadlock. After processing an incoming
interface operation, a realized component component must signal the sending
component to indicate that it can proceed with its execution. This signaling is
done by calling Notify on the waiting component as the last act in the method,
VerifierInvocationHandler.executeRealizedCode(). 

A deadlock risk exists because in the current revision of this class (CVS
revision 1.6), the Notify call is made within a critical block synchronized to
the local Component Instance. In order to complete the Notify call, a lock must
be obtained on the remote component instance. If the sending component is itself
trying to send another message to the local component, it will already have
obtained a lock on itself and will be trying to obtain a lock on the local
component. Thus, each component thread locks itself first, then attempts obtain
the lock on the other component. This is a classic deadlock situation. Note that
this situation can only arise with two realized components, since a modeled
component would not be attempting to send a message while waiting for a response
from a previous one. In other words, in this situation there must be more than
one thread running sending component behavior.

7. Design
---------
The solution is to move the Notify call outside of the critical section. Since
the sending component thread must be blocked in the thread that actually sent
the message, it is safe to perform the Notify immediately outside of the
critical section.

8. Design Comments
------------------
With this fix in place, an additional problem was observed. The observed symptom
was a console error message, "Attempted to pop empty stack.". This was traced to
the fact that the sample model provided by the customer contained Object Action
Language in the ports of the realized component.

#8.1 Additional Analysis
Every component has a modeled stack, whether it is realized or not. In the case
of a realized component, the modeled stack is used to manage inter-component
messages only. The regular java virtual machine stack is used for everything
else. When a message sent by a piece of realized java has completed processing,
the modeled stack of the local component must be unwound. Part of this unwinding
is achieved by a call to the modeled Stack.unblock operation. If OAL is present
in the ports, statement instances are found by the unblock operation which leads
to Statement.setupNextStatement() being called. This in turn calls
Block.popUpBlock() which then makes a premature call to Stack.pop(). We could
stipulate that all realized components have Do not parse set on their port OAL,
but this would be very inconvenient for users and would lead to unnecessary
support calls.

#8.2 Solution
Instead, a modification is made to AllActivityModifier to cache the fact that an
about-to-execute realized component is being parsed. All interface operations
are then treated as Do Not Parse. Once this is done, no statements are created
and execution proceeds normally and reliably.

9. Work Required
----------------
#9.1 Move call to Notify()
In VerifierInvocationHandler.executeRealizedCode() move the block:

                if (waitingComp != null) {
                    waitingComp.Notify();
                }

to reside immediately after the closing brace of the synchronized(fee) block.

#9.2 Add componentIsRealized flag
In AllActivityModifier, add a private boolean member, componentIsRealized, with
default value false.

#9.3 Use this flag to control parsing of port OAL
In the second block of AllActivityModifier.parseAction(), an if test checks for
a parsing status of doNotParse and initializes port activities as unparsed. We
add an or clause to this if test so that port OAL in a realized component is
treated the same way, thus:

        if ( toParse == Parsestatus_c.doNotParse || componentIsRealized )

#9.4 Set the flag during execution startup
Add an accessor, setRealized(), to AllActivityModifier. In the method,
BPDebugTarget.launchElement(), check for an non null result from
ComponentInstance_c.getRealizedBy(). This indicates a component instance whose
component is marked as realized and which successfully instantiated a user
implementation.

If non-null, call setRealized() on AllActivityModifier. Since all calls to
processAllActivities are made after construction of a new instance of the
AllActivityModifier class, it is unnecessary to reset this flag.

10. Unit Test
------------
#10.1 Verifier and UI text JUnit tests must be rerun

#10.2 A new test is required
_- The customer supplied model with java code must be added to the Verifier test
suite.
_- Run configuration VIEC_Configuration
_- Run configuration 'Tester'
_R Tester runs to completion
_- Repeat a further nine times
_R Tester runs to completion in every case
_R The following output is seen from each run (with allowance for IP address
   differences):

LogInfo:  CODE:: Received: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<ga:event xmlns:ga="com:ericsson:modeling:ga" id="INVITE"/>
LogInfo:  CODE:: remoteAddress : /172.30.64.81
LogInfo:  CODE:: Parsed event =  INVITE
LogInfo:  CODE:: Received MTAS event!
1:AbDialingServiceControl dequeueing. Event: AbDialingServiceControl1: INVITE
1:AbDialingServiceControl transition. New State: HANDLING_INVITE Previous State: IDLE
1:AbDialingServiceControl dequeueing. Event: AbDialingServiceControl3: handlingStarted
1:AbDialingServiceControl transition. New State: WAITING_RESULT Previous State: HANDLING_INVITE
LogInfo:  CODE:: Provider - invoked  handleInvite method!
LogInfo:  CODE:: Sending: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<ga:task xmlns:ga="com:ericsson:modeling:ga">
<ga:run method="handleInvite"/>
</ga:task> to /172.30.64.81
LogInfo:  CODE:: Received: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<ga:event xmlns:ga="com:ericsson:modeling:ga" id="noAbDialCommand"/>
LogInfo:  CODE:: remoteAddress : /172.30.64.81
LogInfo:  CODE:: Parsed event =  noAbDialCommand
LogInfo:  CODE:: Received Model event!
LogInfo:  CODE:: Provider - sendProviderEvent method invoked with eventName = noAbDialCommand
1:AbDialingServiceControl dequeueing. Event: AbDialingServiceControl4: noAbDialCommand
1:AbDialingServiceControl transition. New State: RETURNING_CONTINUE Previous State: WAITING_RESULT
LogInfo:  CODE:: Provider - returnContinue method invoked
LogInfo:  CODE:: ********** AFTER **************
LogInfo:  CODE:: Sending: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<ga:task xmlns:ga="com:ericsson:modeling:ga">
<ga:run method="returnContinue"/>
</ga:task> to /172.30.64.81
LogInfo:  CODE:: Received: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<ga:event xmlns:ga="com:ericsson:modeling:ga" id="REFER"/>
LogInfo:  CODE:: remoteAddress : /172.30.64.81
LogInfo:  CODE:: Parsed event =  REFER
LogInfo:  CODE:: Received MTAS event!
1:AbDialingServiceControl dequeueing. Event: AbDialingServiceControl7: messageHandled
1:AbDialingServiceControl transition. New State: IDLE Previous State: RETURNING_CONTINUE
1:AbDialingServiceControl dequeueing. Event: AbDialingServiceControl2: REFER
1:AbDialingServiceControl transition. New State: HANDLING_REFER Previous State: IDLE
1:AbDialingServiceControl dequeueing. Event: AbDialingServiceControl3: handlingStarted
1:AbDialingServiceControl transition. New State: WAITING_RESULT Previous State: HANDLING_REFER
LogInfo:  CODE:: Provider - handleRefer method invoked
LogInfo:  CODE:: Sending: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<ga:task xmlns:ga="com:ericsson:modeling:ga">
<ga:run method="handleRefer"/>
</ga:task> to /172.30.64.81
LogInfo:  CODE:: Received: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<ga:event xmlns:ga="com:ericsson:modeling:ga" id="invalidAbDialCode"/>
LogInfo:  CODE:: remoteAddress : /172.30.64.81
LogInfo:  CODE:: Parsed event =  invalidAbDialCode
LogInfo:  CODE:: Received Model event!
LogInfo:  CODE:: Provider - sendProviderEvent method invoked with eventName = invalidAbDialCode
1:AbDialingServiceControl dequeueing. Event: AbDialingServiceControl6: invalidAbDialCode
1:AbDialingServiceControl transition. New State: RETURNIG_REJECT Previous State: WAITING_RESULT
LogInfo:  CODE:: Provider - returnReject method invoked
LogInfo:  CODE:: ********** AFTER **************
LogInfo:  CODE:: Sending: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<ga:task xmlns:ga="com:ericsson:modeling:ga">
<ga:run method="returnReject"/>
</ga:task> to /172.30.64.81
1:AbDialingServiceControl dequeueing. Event: AbDialingServiceControl7: messageHandled
1:AbDialingServiceControl transition. New State: IDLE Previous State: RETURNIG_REJECT

End
---

