<pre>
========================================================================

File:      $RCSfile: dts0100799550.dnt,v $
Version:   $Revision: 1.2 $
Modified:  $Date: 2012/07/24 16:50:27 $

(c) Copyright 2007-2012 by Mentor Graphics Corp. All rights reserved.

========================================================================
This document contains information proprietary and confidential to
Mentor Graphics Corp., and is not for external distribution.
========================================================================

BridgePoint Project Design Note
Support method to annotate diagrams

1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes the changes required to support text annotation on diagrams.

2. History
----------

3. Document References
----------------------
[1] ClearQuest DEI dts0100799550
[2] SRS SB2426998191

4. Background
-------------
The tool currently supports descriptions on most elements.  In addition it
supports tooltip hovering to show an elements description.  This however
requires a user to move the mouse around to see details about the diagram.  The
tool shall support text annotations either in note form or simple text on the
diagram.  This will allow a user to see detailed diagram information without
interacting with the diagram.
 
5. Requirements
---------------
5.1 Add annotation support

5.1.1 Add note symbol

The tool shall be enhanced to include a note symbol.  This symbol shall have a
supporting tool which resides near the Zoom Tool in the main tool compartment.  
The tool when selected shall create a symbol that resembles a sticky note,
commonly used in diagram tools.  The note symbol itself shall be configurable
such that there is no background for the symbol allowing simply text to show on
the diagram.

5.1.2 Add connection for note symbol

The tool shall also support a simply connection between a note symbol and any
element on the diagram.  This will allow a note to be associated with a
particular element.

5.1.3 Editing support

There are a few ways to support editing.  These include the following:

5.1.3.1 In place editing

User double left clicks in the note area and is provided an editor that is the
size of the note.  This editor allows all text but does not support common
editor functionality like undo/redo and search.

5.1.3.2 Pop up editor

User double left clicks in the note area and is provided an editor pop up.  This
editor is larger than the note (in most cases) yet smaller than the diagram
editor area.  The editor allows all text and supports common editor
functionality.
 
5.1.3.3 An eclipse editor

User double left clicks in the note area and is provided with a new editor
(along side the diagram editor).  The editor allows all text and supports common
editor functionality.

6. Analysis
-----------

7. Design
---------

8. Design Comments
------------------

9. Work Required
----------------

10. Unit Test
------------

End
---

$Log: dts0100799550.dnt,v $
Revision 1.2  2012/07/24 16:50:27  tlondon
Job: dts0100799550

Break up requirements section

Revision 1.1  2012/07/24 16:00:38  tlondon
Job: dts0100799550

Add design note with requirements

</pre>