---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Component references in verifier are not compared correctly
### xtUML Project Implementation Note


1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes the changes performed to fix and test an issue when
comparing ```component_ref``` types in Verifier.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 80, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/80  
[2] CQ dts0100951499 - headline issue  
[3] 80_dts0100951499_dnt.md  
[4] CQ dts0101009201 - Extend ParseAll Tests  
[5] Test model enhancement issue, https://github.com/xtuml/models/issues/15  

3. Background
-------------
See [3].

4. Requirements
---------------
See [3].

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1  The update to ```BinaryOperation::getBoolean()``` was performed as designed.  

5.2  Added new JUnit test ```VerifierInterfaceExecutionTests::testComponentRefComparisonInMessageBodies()```


6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1  Updated parser tests for component_ref comparison.  
6.1.1  Edited ComponentSyntaxTest model (see [5])
  - In the ```Test Component Syntax``` class, added a new attribute
  ```ref_to_component``` of type ```component_ref```.
  - In component ```Good Syntax```, edited ```Port 1 > ProvidedTestInterface > ProvSig``` to
  include tests of "==" and "!=" inside if statements and inside select ... where statements.  
   
6.1.2  During this work, I found that the ParseAllInDomain tests do not
  actually parse all activity bodies, the inter-component message action bodies
  are skipped.  I added code to test all provided and required signals and
  operations.  However, the ComponentSyntaxTest model isn't suitable to have its
  operation bodies parsed as some intentionally contain errors for other 
  tests.  I was able to leave the signal body parsing in place.  I raised [4] to
  complete the enhancement to parse operations as well.  
  
6.2 Utility function updates    
6.2.1  While writing the JUnit to test component_ref comparison, I hit a problem 
  when trying to run the Init function from the two individual, but identical, 
  component reference instances.  In the end I had to introduce a new utility function:  
```
UIUtil.java
  public static Menu getMenuForTreeItem(TreeViewer viewer, TreeItem item)
```  
6.2.2  In ```DebugUITestUtilities.java``` I added a comment at the ```getMenuInSETree()``` function
  to make anyone who looks at this function aware of the new, similar, function
  added with this work in ```UIUtil```.    
6.2.3  Added utility functions to find tree items in ```SessionExplorerTreeViewer.java```  
   
7. Unit Test
------------
7.1  Run Parser and Verifier JUnit tests

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: ```80_comp_ref_compare```

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.als.oal.test/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/als/oal/test/ParseAllInDomain_Generics.java

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/models/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/ooaofooa/Value/Binary Operation/
    Binary Operation.xtuml
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/src/com/mentor/
    nucleus/bp/core/util/UIUtil.java

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui.test/
    expected_results/interface_execution/
    execution_compare_component_refs_good.txt
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui.test/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/debug/ui/test/DebugUITestUtilities.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui.test/src/com/
    mentor/nucleus/bp/debug/ui/test/execute/VerifierInterfaceExecutionTests.java

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.session/src/com/mentor/
    nucleus/bp/ui/session/SessionExplorerTreeViewer.java



End
---

