---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Component references in verifier are not compared correctly
### xtUML Project Design Note


1. Abstract
-----------
The note describes the proposed fix for a customer-reported issue with the way
Verifier compares elements of type ```component_ref```.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 80, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/80  
[2] CQ dts0100951499 - headline issue  
[3] CQ dts0101008701 - Enhance comparison of non-typical data types

3. Background
-------------
A customer is running a model that uses inter-component messaging. In the model
the receiver of an inter-component message copies the implicit component reference
value stored in ```sender``` to a local attribute of type ```component_ref```.  During
later processing, these stored component reference attributes are compared for
equality in the where clause of a ```select ... where``` statement.   

The issue is that the equality comparison always returns true, even when inequal
references are compared.  The customer provided a very detailed error report 
along with a test model.  Both are attached to [2].  

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1  Values of type ```component_ref``` shall be comparable for equality and
  inequality.
  
5. Analysis
-----------
5.1  Equality and inequality comparisons are handled in 
  ```BinaryOperation::getBoolean()```.  An investigative trace of that funtion 
  revealed this flow:  
  - Gets left and right component_ref values in hand
  - Pops the two component_ref values off the stack
  - Starts processing for operator "=="
    - Checks if value data type is sdt, edt, real, int, timestamp, or date ... all checks are no (it's a component_ref)
    - Bypasses special handling for each of the aforementioned types
    - Falls all the way down to fail-safe "else" at the end of "==" check
      - This fail-safe uses ```Gd_c.Instance_to_boolean()``` comparison on both 
      left and right ```RuntimeValue_c.getValue()``` results, which come in turn from ```SimpleValue_c.getValue()```
      - ```SimpleValue.getValue()``` finds an associated ```ComponentReferenceValue_c``` instance.  It then
        tries to locate a ```ComponentInstance_c``` (I_EXE execution engine) tied to this ```SimpleValue_c```
        and finds the correct one.
      - ```Gd_c.Instance_to_boolean()``` then takes the ```ComponentInstance_c``` it has 
      been given and calls out to ```String_to_boolean(p_Value.toString())``` where ```p_Value``` 
      is the ```ComponentInstance_c```.  ```ComponentInstance_c.toString()``` returns a 
      meaningful value like "com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core.ComponentInstance_c@1ff89c3", which is correct.
      -  ```String_to_boolean()``` then takes this ```p_Value``` string and calls 
      ```Boolean.valueOf(p_Value).booleanValue()``` __which always returns false for 
      non-null p_Value data that is not the case-insensitive string "true"__.  This leaves the 
      comparison ```false == false``` which always returns "true".  Obviously this is not what we want.
       
5.2  The root of the problem is the fact that ```BinaryOperation.getBoolean()``` needs 
  to have special handling for ```component_refs``` just like it does for timestamps, 
  dates, etc.  This will prevent the code from using the fail-safe else clause.  
   
5.3  It is likely that other legal, but atypical, core types such as inst_ref< Mapping >, 
  inst< Event >, inst_ref< Timer >, etc... fall victim to the same failure mode.  Issue [3]
  is raised to explore and fix these cases at a later time.  
  
6. Design
---------
6.1  In ```BinaryOperation.getBoolean()```, add a check to see if we are dealing
  with ```component_ref``` values.  Add special handling if we are.  This code 
  will compare the string IDs (like "com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core.ComponentInstance_c@1ff89c3") 
  for the left and right ```component_ref``` instances and see if they match or not.  
  
  Because the memory stamp "@< location >" is unique for each component reference, we will
  be able to tell with certainty if the component references being compared are 
  the same or not.
  
7. Design Comments
------------------
None.

8. Unit Test
------------
8.1  Add new Verifier JUnit test case to test equality and inequality of 
  ```component_ref``` types.  
8.2  Run Parser and Verifier JUnit tests.

End
---


