---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Address multiple issues with compare/merge
### xtUML Project Review Minutes


Reviewed:  50_dts0100970480.dnt  71cb1bc32c  
Present:  Travis,Keith,Bob

<pre>

-- Num Type  Who  Section  Comment
x- 01  min  KB   6.2  grammar issue in first sentence
x- 02  min  TL   6.6  add same statement for Float type
x- 03  min  KB   7.2  typo in ignoreignoreMissingPMCErrors


code review  (date: 20131009)
------------
Reviewed:  origin/Review-dts0100970480 sync'd with origin/master  
Present:  Travis,Keith,Bob

-- Num Type  Who  File  Comment
x- 01  min  Bob   BPCLIWorkbenchAdvisor.java and MergeWorkbenchAdvisor.java - Need to add this change to the note.
x- 02  min  TL   createobjectinspector.java  There is a change that needs to be backed out.
x- 03  min  KB   create_model_inspector.arc   Add comments to setDerived()/isDerived()
x- 04  min  Bob   ObjectElementComparable.java   Make the constructor take an ObjectElemnt only to assure the cast is safe
x- 05  min  Travis  ModelContentMergeViewer Starting on line 757 - Need to document this in the implementation note.  Making sure we processes additions/removals before dealing with merges otherwise it throws the location numbers.

x- 06  min  Bob  TextualAttubuteCompareElementType.java::135   Inclide the name of the method that caused the problem in the error message for each of the exceptions.
x- 07  min  Bob   AssociationComparable.java  Line 52 and 66 needs assure there is not a null uuid

x- 08  min  TL   DiagramEditPArt.java  need to guarentee this is run on the UI thread.  This needs to be documented in the note

x- 09  min  Bob   ModelMergeProcessor.java::123  Add more to the comment about why we can not allow merge in this case

x- 10  min  Bob   ModelMergeProcessor.java::491  There is a cast (ComparableTreeObject) that may not be safe.

Travis : Changed the merge processor to only accept an instance of ITreeDifferencerProvider, which only works with ComparableTreeObject elements.

x- 11  min  Bob   ModelMergeProcessor.java::572,599,632  There are 3 copies of very similiar code, perhaps refactor?


x- 12  min  TL    ModelMergeProcessor.java::800  Travis thinks this "looks funny" and wants to look more.

Travis : The code is good, the problem was that assigning diffElement to the new comparable could result in it
         being nullified.  We do not want this to occur.
</pre>
   
No major observations, a re-review is not required.



End
---
