---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Stall stepping in deterministic mode
### xtUML Project Design Note


1. Abstract
-----------
 If a model is running in deterministic mode, when stepping over an interface 
 operation, execution stalls with the stepping buttons disabled.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 82, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/82  
[2] ClearQuest DEI dts0100943423 - Stall stepping in deterministic mode  
[3] ClearQuest DEI dts0100942182 - Model execution stepping behavior is not 
	deterministic  
[4] ClearQuest DEI dts0100942497 - Verifier fails to detect and report 
	execution interface operations with no return statement

3. Background
-------------
None.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 The stepping shall wake up the deterministic execution loop so that 
	the remote component can process the message being stepped over. 

5. Analysis
-----------
5.1 If a model is running in deterministic mode, when stepping over an interface 
 operation, execution stalls with the stepping buttons disabled. And user can
 only click on resume button ( green triangle ) to continue the execution. 
 
 It is needed to notify the remote component when stepping to be able 
 to process the interface signal/operation being stepped over.

6. Design
---------
6.1 Invoke BPDebugTarget.Notify() in both BPStackFrame.StepOver() and 
  BPStackFrame.StepInto() 

7. Design Comments
------------------
7.1 The proposed fix will also resolve the headline reproducible case in [3].

7.2 When StepOver is performed in an interface operation with a return value, but the its
  body is missing return statement, it looks like the verifier is stalled but
  this is not the case. What is happening is that a repeated invocation for the
  interface operation because of the missing return value, this can be seen
  by adding non-return statement to the interface operation body (e.g. dummy=1;)
  and adding a breakpoint to this statement. When stepOver is performed on the interface operation,
  the breakpoint will get hit, 
  
  _- stepOver to return to the previous activity body  
     (where the interface operation got invoked)   
  _- stepOver again  
  _R the added breakpoint will get hit again (the stepOver button is not disabled in this
  use-case).  
  
  This bug is reported in [4] and will not get fixed by work
  outlined in the design section.
 

8. Unit Test
------------
8.1 Run Verifier junit tests.  
8.2 Add new test case cover stepping over a wired interface operation/signal 
  and verify that verifier is not stalled.

End
---

