---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

 
Display the port name instead of the interface name in the explorer view for a 
referenced component
### xtUML Project Analysis Note
 

1. Abstract
-----------
It is much more useful to know the port of a component instead of the interface.
If for example the component have multiple port oft he same interface, these
can not be distinguished in the explorer view.
 

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 1, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/1  
[2] Issues 2, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/2  
[3] \\wv\dfs\bridgepoint\field_data\dts0100729739
    \me_component_multiple_ports_formalized.png
	
3. Background
-------------
 

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Display the port name instead of the interface name in the explorer view for
    a referenced component

 
5. Analysis
-----------
5.1 The problem with the current way the interface names are displayed in the 
    tree view is, the case when a component has multiple ports formalized to 
	the same interface. ME looks bad in this case[3].

5.2 There are three ways to get this problem resolved:
5.2.1 Make the port tree node show directly under the component reference
      in the ME tree view. 
      The changes needed for this solution is one line change in the file 
      ui.explorer/sql/UITree.pei.sql. This file will be modified to include the 
	  port of the component definition as a child of the component 
      reference.  
	  The hover text on the imported interface references will
	  show the port name.
      Since we have this workaround in the graphics this modification might be 
	  enough.
      The end result will look like the following:  
	  							 

5.2.2 Modify the tree node of the imported requirement/imported provision 
      that shows under the component reference, to show the port name along with 
	  the interface name.
	  The changes needed for this solution is adding an if statement to the 
	  ui.explorer/arc/create_label_provider.inc file. 
	  Consequently the method getText() will return a different result in 
	  case of imported requirement/imported provision elements.
	  The result will be in the form portName::InterfaceName
      The end result will look like the following:
	  
  
5.2.3 Introduce new model element Imported Port. This is a new class, with new 
      data for explorer, properties and probably ui.text.
      This new element will capture all the needed informations and would  
      serve as a child for the component reference the same way Port is child
      to component. 	  
      This will need multi-file modification plus all of the maintenance OAL for 
	  needed for setting up the instances and disposing them.
	  
	  
5.3 The Proposed solution is 5.2.1, because it's a very limited change
    doesn't involve any meta-model modification. It just involves how the 
	tree points to the port instance as opposed to 
	imported requirement/imported provision elements.
	It only changes how it's displayed in the tree view.
	It is more comprehensible to the user, as they show the same way the ports 
	show under the referenced component.
	

6. Work Required
----------------
TBD

7. Acceptance Test
------------------
7.1 _- Open GPS project
    _- Navigate to "system" package
	_- In the ME expand component reference "GPS Watch::Library::UI"
	R_ Under the component reference shows "UI" port name along with
	   "UI" interface name in the form "UI::UI"
 
 
End
---
