---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Fix parameter handling for unique_ids in VIEC
### xtUML Project Implementation Note


1. Abstract
-----------
Verifier cannot export the values of parameters of type 'unique_id'. Instead
it throws a java runtime error. This note discusses the options for fixing
this.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] doc-internal/notes/dts0100936030/dts0100936030_dnt.md   

3. Background
-------------
See [1].

4. Requirements
---------------
See [1].

5. Work Required
----------------
See [1]. 

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1 Incoming UUID handling

6.1.1 Existing functionality

During implementation, it was noted that Verifier does handle incoming UUID
values already. They are converted into string form in the runtime environment
and UUID's that have originated outside the xtUML are correctly reconstituted
from those strings. Accordingly, it was decided to keep this functionality in
place. Instead the solution proposed in 5.2.2 of [1] is employed. Conversion
of locally created UUID's back into the original integer form are carried out
as designed. For this to happen, the first UUID field must match the specified
pattern; 'ideeda7a' and fields 2 and 3 must match the local component_id. All
other UUID's, including those originating from other running components are
converted into the string form using UUID.toString(). There is one previously
undocumented exception to this, see [6.2.3].

6.2 Bridge Calls

It was noted that UUID's exchanged through from Bridge calls also require
attention.

6.2.1 Unique_id output

The policy here is chnaged to be consistent with the proposed policy
documented in [1] with one significant difference. Since Bridge calls are
not part of the Component protocol, the component id is zeroed.

6.2.2 Raw UUID in Runtime

In one case, it was noted that the UUID value is brought directly
into the RuntimeValue instance, without string conversion. This is addressed,
using the incoming UUID conversion policy.

6.2.3 Incoming UUID handling

This is done using the same policies as for components, but Unique ids output
from a bridge call [6.2.1] are handled differently in both bridge and component
input. If the component id is found to be zero, (UUID field 1 must still hold
the signature pattern) the UUID is converted as if it was a local value. With-
out this rule, a unique_id could not be exported to java over a bridge and be
returned as the same value.

7. Unit Test
------------
7.1 New JUnit tests

After the policy changes detailed in section 6 were identified, the test
requirement was revisited and 21 possible test combinations were identified.
These are:

```
1. a. parameter | b. return
2. a. xtUML local | b. xtUML remote | c. external
3. a.in | b. out
4  a. bridge | b. message

1a2a3a4a parameter | local    | in  | bridge
1b2a3a4a return    | local    | in  | bridge
1a2b3a4a parameter | remote   | in  | bridge
1b2b3a4a return    | remote   | in  | bridge
1a2c3a4a parameter | external | in  | bridge
1b2c3a4a return    | external | in  | bridge

1a2a3b4a parameter | local    | out | bridge
1b2a3b4a return    | local    | out | bridge - CH
1a2b3b4a parameter | remote   | out | bridge
1b2b3b4a return    | remote   | out | bridge - CH
1a2c3b4a parameter | external | out | bridge
1b2c3b4a return    | external | out | bridge - CH

1a2a3a4b parameter | local    | in  | message
1b2a3a4b return    | local    | in  | message
1a2b3a4b parameter | remote   | in  | message
1b2b3a4b return    | remote   | in  | message
1a2c3a4b parameter | external | in  | message
1b2c3a4b return    | external | in  | message

1a2a3b4b parameter | local    | out | message
1b2a3b4b return    | local    | out | message
1a2b3b4b parameter | remote   | out | message
1b2b3b4b return    | remote   | out | message
1a2c3b4b parameter | external | out | message
```

Three of these cases cannot happen since an outgoing return value cannot be
obtained in the context of native a bridge call.

The remaining 21 cases are addressed in a new test model, 'dts0100936030'.
This is checked into git at models/test. The test model passes its tests,
but at the time of writing, no JUnit code exists to run these models.

7.2 Existing JUnit tests

Since all changes are to Verifier specific code only, it is safe to rerun only
the Verifier test suites.

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: Review-dts0100936030

```
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/models/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/ooaofooa/External Entities/
    External Entities.xtuml
 com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/
    core/Vm_c.java
 com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/
    core/common/IdAssigner.java

 com.mentor.nucleus.bp.debug.ui/src/com/mentor/nucleus/
    bp/debug/java/access/VerifierInvocationHandler.java
```
End
---

