---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Fix DLLs and SOs not being unloaded when Verifier session is terminated
### xtUML Project Design Note

1. Abstract
-----------
A customer reports that native libraries loaded by user provided realized code
are not being unloaded when Verifier terminates. This note describes changes
to improve behavior in this situation.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] dts0100992921 - DLLs and SOs are not unloaded when Verifier session is
    terminated

[2] https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/62

3. Background
-------------
The customer is using VIEC and loads the RxTx USB serial library. On the first
run, the modeled system responds as expected. However, when the simulation
session is terminated and restarted, the library fails to load throwing an
UnsatisfiedLinkError.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 All native libraries required by user supplied java code should be silently
reloaded when a Verifier session is restarted.

5. Analysis
-----------
Investigation shows that using JNI makes this issue user visible, but is not
the root cause of the problem.

The full text of the exception thrown is of the form:

java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError: Native Library <native library name> already
loaded in another classloader thrown while loading <library package name>

Java library loading rules are such that the same library cannot be loaded
through more than one class loader simultaneously. A search for discussions
about this error indicates that the standard solution is to use a singleton
classloader so that the libraries are only loaded once.

Unfortunately, Verifier uses a new classloader instance for each session to
satisfy a customer expectation (ironically, the same customer) that static
variables in user supplied classes be reset between sessions. We therefore
do not have the option to change to using a singleton classloader.


5.1 Garbage Collection

So, given that we cannot use a singleton Classloader, we must regard the above
observations as a symptom of the underlying issue, not the direct cause. The
real problem is that BPClassLoader instances are not being garbage collected
when a Verification session is terminated.

The only alternative solution, then, is to discover why the classloader is not
being garbage collected. The answer must be that some part of the BridgePoint
implementation must be retaining references to it. In other words, there must
be a previously undetected memory leak.

5.2 Using jConsole

Java memory leakage is difficult to debug and classloader memory leakage even
more so. To investigate it, I used the standard java tool, jconsole and added
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote to the arguments of the host launch. This
allows jconsole to connect to the running application.

In jconsole, we use dumpHeap under MBeans > com.sun.management > Operations.
Invoking this writes a heap snapshot to the file passed as a string. The
boolean parameter specifies whether to dump only live (i.e. referenced)
objects or all objects. Passing true causes a garbage collection to be forced
(see below for why this is significant). The file should specify a .hprof file
extension. This is not checked by jconsole, but is required for the next step.

To analyze the heap, an eclipse plugin, MAT (Memory Analysis Tool) was used.
This is installed using the standard Eclipse discovery plugins site.

5.3 Analysis of the Verifier Virtual Machine External Entity

The MAT plugin loads the previously exported heap file and allows searching
and browsing of the objects in the heap snapshot. The heap files are in the
100kB range, so we must use search tools to look for instances of interest.
I searched for instances of BPClassLoader with incoming references. This gets
a number of hits and I identified the need to dispose the Stack of targetInfo
instances in the Vm_c class. This stack structure is held in the static
variable 'stackMap' inside VM_c. It retains references to classes created by
BPClassLoader. Since all classes created by a classloader must be themselves
dereferenced before the Classloader can be unloaded, garbage collection is
prevented.

It was hoped that the changes proposed in 5.3 would resolve the problem,
however all it does is improve the behavior, albeit quite significantly.
After adding a call to clear the stack and remove it from the stack map,
the following changed behavior is seen:

_- On termination, the problem persists, but

_- Clear the debug window by clicking the gray double 'X' button

_- Wait about 3 - 4 seconds

_R The ClassLoader is garbage collected

_- Start a Verifier new session

_- Launch succeeds without the UnsatisfiedLinkError. JNI calls are successful.

I have so far been unable to determine why the terminated contents of the Debug
window prevent Classloader Garbage collection. One of the debug model classes
must be holding an indirect reference to a class created by the BPClassLoader.

5.4 Searching for indirect references

Normally we could have used the MAT plugin to find the indirect references.
Unfortunately, the MAT plugin is unable to trace the reference. Here is what I
found:

_- Run a session as before

_- Terminate the session, but do not clear the debug window

_- Use jconsole to dump a heap snapshot

The observations from the above procedure differ depending on the setting of the
'live' boolean argument in jConsole mentioned above. With the 'live' boolean
argument set to false, we see a number of incoming references to BPClassLoader,
none are obvious culprits for preventing garbage collection, since they do not
trace back to any BridgePoint implementation classes. It is not practical to
search the heap, since the 'live' boolean argument is false. This means that the
references include objects that are scheduled for garbage collection, so it is
difficult to be sure which ones are really holding the BPClassLoader in memory.

What would tell us is a dump where the 'live' argument is true. However this is
where it gets interesting. If we attempt to repeat the above steps with the
'live' argument set to true, jconsole forces garbage collection before making
the dump. At this moment BPClassLoader is collected as it should be and we have
no data to look at.

The only possible conclusion I can draw is:
- that by adding the Stack clear and removal from Vm_c, we have done all we
  need to do in BridgePoint code to dereference the Classloader.
- jConsole is doing something special to force full garbage collection (I also
  tried to explicitly call system.gc() at session termination to force garbage
  collection, but it did not help).

While jConsole is obviously implemented in java, a search reveals that the
MXBean implementation used for dumpHeap has a native implementation. Further,
the source of the MXBean implementation is unavailable. Since it is native, it
could be doing things to the java VM from outside that we simply cannot do from
an Eclipse execution context.

5.5 Recommendation

At this point, the trail goes cold, so the only recommendation is that we do as
much as possible to address the issue by adding the code to clear the Verifier
Virtual machine stack on termination as proposed in 5.3 above.

It is recommended that the following statement be added to the release notes:
"SR2569403761: Dll is not unloaded when verifier session is terminated. This
issue is addressed in this release as far as possible. The resolution is
dependent on the Java Runtime Garbage Collector over which Mentor has no
control. Users should be aware that garbage collection can take several
seconds to execute after terminating a Verifier session. If a session is
restarted before garbage collection has released the dll, the previously
reported symptoms will be seen."

6. Design
---------
6.1 Clear the Virtual Machine argument stack when terminating.

A new public and static method, 'removeStack()' is added to the realized core
class 'Vm_c'. This clears and removes the virtual machine parameter stack.
This method is called from BPDebug.terminate() and BPThread.terminate() when
the session is ended..

7. Design Comments
------------------
7.1. Fix initializeUnparsed operations

This issue requires a simulation to be restarted to assure that the problem is
fixed. During testing, a failure was noted such that on the second run only,
Verifier reported an internal failure to find an outer block on operations
marked as 'Do not parse'. This was traced to incorrect operation of the
'initializeUnparsed' operations on the message classes; 'ProvidedOperation',
'Provided Signal', 'Required Operation' and 'Required Signal'. The OAL in
these operations assumed that if a Body subtype was present, no outer block
initialization is needed. This assumption is incorrect. The operations are
modified to look explicitly for the presence of the required Block instances
and to create them if they are not there.

8. Unit Test
------------
8.1 All existing Verifier Unit tests must pass.

8.2 A new test is created that assures that the UnsatisfiedLinkError does not
    happen when the Debug Tree is cleared of old launches. 

The customer supplied test model covers several issues and has a lot of
irrelevant modelling in it. Instead, a new test project, SR2569403761 is
created to show just this issue. The containing project also contains the C++
source for a small dll that exposes one member function, 'getMessage'. This
returns the string "Hello JNI.". The dll is built automatically by CDT. The
project also declares some client java classes which load the dll, call the
function and return the method to a VIEC compatible realized java class
('Realized.java'). The test model makes the appropriate calls and logs the
resulting message.

The test is added to the Verifier second test suite. The launch for this suite
has a new argument added:

 -Dtest.jni.lib="${workspace_loc:\SR2569403761\Debug\libSR2569403761.dll}"

This setting is used by the java test class to load the dll. The eclipse
variable 'workspace_loc' is used to ensure portability between development
machines.

The JUnit test launches the test and assures the expected message is logged. It
then terminates the simulation and waits 30 seconds to assure that the Garbage
Collector has time to run. It then repeats the test.

This test is Windows specific. It does not attempt to detect the host OS and
initiate an equivalent Linux test. If and when the tests are run under Linux,
this test will require to be extended to cover this.

End
---

