---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Address compare/merge issues from 4.1.10
### xtUML Project Design Note

1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes the changes required to address a few issues found in the
4.1.10 release.  These issues are all related to new support added in 4.1.10.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 227, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/227     
[2] CQ Issue: dts0101054289 - Graphics are not automatically merged unless a
                              manual merge has been completed      
[3] CQ Issue: dts0101056206 - Changes made to instance state machine of the
                              subtype class cause dangling references in
                              BP 4.1.10   
[4] CQ Issue: dts0101056209 - Switching to a branch which doesn't have updated
                              ISM polymorphic event identifiers causes false
                              dangling references errors   
[5] CQ Issue: dts0101009925 - Merging addition of state machine from two
                              branches   
[6] CQ Issue: dts0101040652 - Graphical elements should not be used in the merge
                              process   

3. Background
-------------
BridgePoint release, 4.1.10, added support to address issues [5] and [6].  A few
issues were found by the customer relating to this work.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 The compare merge editor shall be marked dirty if only graphical data changes   
    are present   
4.2 Creation of a new element in the canvas shall be allowed on a newly checked
    out branch   
4.3 The tool shall not update SM Ids except for during compare/merge

5. Analysis
-----------
5.1 Graphical merge

Since 4.1.10 graphical data is automatically merged.  When this support was
added the case where no semantical data was present in the changeset was not
considered.  The tool shall detect this case and mark the editor as dirty.  This
allows the user to either save or skip adding the graphical changes by closing
without saving.

5.2 Adding an element to a newly checked out branch

Investigation shows that when Selection.setSelection is called we are checking
if the elements in the new selection already exist, if they do the selection is
not updated.  In the case of a file replace the element is equal according to
the equals method, but they are not the same java instance.  The element in the
selection is the one torn down due to the file replace.  Since it is left over
the creation of new elements does not work.  The tool shall simply clear the
previous selection when setSelection is called.  There is no benefit to checking
the current selection before updating it.

5.3 Dangling references

With the changes from [5] the tool was modified to upgrade models to use an id
based off of the class' id and a character (either 'i' or 'c').  This allowed
two state machines added in two different branches to get merged together as the
class id was always the same.  This approach affected the in memory model only
which allowed for a hole when dealing with polymorphic events.  If the user
modified and committed only one of the supertype or subtype the ids on disk
would be out of sync.  This caused for corruption on the next load.  In addition
the upgrade code was interfering with model reloads when both versions of the
data file were not corrupt.  This resulted in temporary dangling reference
errors.  The tool shall change the SM ID upgrade policy to only upgrade them
when dealing with compare/merge.  This allows for the data on the disk to always
remain in sync.  Doing this will still address [5] and will prevent [3] and [4]
from ever occurring.
   
6. Design
---------
6.1 Graphical merge

In ModelContentMergeViewer.updateContent() code is added that looks for incoming
graphical changes.  If any exist the editor is marked dirty, unless they are
accompanied by a semantic change.  In other words the editor will only ever be
marked dirty if only graphical data changes are present.

6.2 Adding an element to a newly checked out branch

Selection.setSelection() is modified to remove comparisons against the current
selection and instead just set the selection to what is passed in.

6.3 Dangling references

The new approach to support [5] is to only update the SM ids in compare/merge.
To do so ModelCacheManager is modified to cache the original SM id if the file
contents contain an ISM or CSM.  Then on load the class will update the ids to
an id generated from the OBJ_ID plus the 'i' or 'c' character.  To handle this
the upgrade code that was added in [5] is moved to this class.

On save the tool must restore the original id.  The same update code from the
ModelCacheManager class is called to update the ids, only the cached id is used.

All references to the upgrade code from [5] are removed.  Additionally, the two
attributes added in [5] to Model Class are removed.  The schemas and test code
are modified to remove support for these two attributes.  This includes the mc
schema, xtumlmc_schema.sql.

Nothing is required to remove the attributes from persisted models.  The
importer simply ignores any attributes that are not modeled.  If we were
removing an attribute not at the end, then we would require upgrade code.

7. Design Comments
------------------
7.1 Various exceptions found during testing

In ModelContentMergeViewer.drawLines() testing showed cases where there were
exceptions being hit.  These dealt with cases where one side was empty.  Also
it was noted that the lines did not match up appropriately, both of these issues
were addressed.

7.2 Exceptions during reload in SemEditorListener

It was noticed during testing that exceptions were hit during file reloads in
the SemEditorListener.  These are addressed by checking for a null state machine
before acting on it.

7.3 Breadcrumbs left for O_OBJ upgrading

In gen_import_java.inc an if test is added that does nothing, except leave a
comment that explains what is required if a new attribute is added to the Model
Class class.  Here is the comment:

        .// NOTE: version 4.1.10 had two UUID attributes that are no longer
        .// present, if a new attribute is added special upgrade code may need
        .// to be added to check for this case.  See dts0101056206, and 
        .// doc-internal/notes/227/227.dnt.md for details

8. Unit Test
------------
8.1 Graphical Merge

_- Add a project to git that has one package and one shape   
_- Branch master and move the shape   
_- Commit the move   
_- Switch to master   
_- Move the shape somewhere else   
_- Commit the move   
_- Merge the branch   
_R Conflicts are hit   
_- Start the merge tool   
_R The compare/merge editor is dirty   

8.2 Adding an element to a newly checked out branch

NOTE: This test is manual, the reproduction of the issue is hard in the first
      place and automated tests will likely not hit the issue.

_- Add a project to git that has one package   
_- Commit the change   
_- Create a new branch   
_- Switch back to master   
_- Add a model class   
_R The class and graphic are added   

End
---

