---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Length of dynamic array at creation time is 1
### xtUML Project Design Note


1. Abstract
-----------
Dynamic arrays are not being properly initialized during execution.  This issue
is raised to investigate and resolve this problem.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 133, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/133  
[2] CQ Issue dts0100798454 - This is the CQ issue associated with this problem.  
[3] Bugzilla item 3085 (Establish fixed array lengths.)  
This is the issue that was used to introduce support for fixed length arrays.,
http://tucson.wv.mentorg.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=3085  
[4] <svn>Documentation_archive/20121102/technical/notes/dts0100887931/dts0100887931.dnt  
This is the design note that describes the work done to implement fixed length arrays.

3. Background
-------------
A customer reported that when a class attribute (or other data element) is 
defined as a dynamic array using "[]" for the dimensions in the Properties 
window, the length of that array is 1 immediately after object instantiation. 
Additionally, attempting to access what appears to be a valid index 
(array[0]) results in a "unwritten array element - using default value" access 
error.

For example, given a class (c1) with a single attribute: 
integer dynamicArray[]

The problems are currently observed while stepping through OAL during execution: 
```
create object instance class1 of c1;    // After this step, if you look at class1.dynamicArray in the variables  
                                        // view you will see it has a value of "Integer [1]".  At his point, this value should be  
                                        // "Integer [0]".  
dynArrLength = class1.dynamicArray.length;  // After this step, the value of dynArrLength is 1.  It should be 0.
 
dynArrElement = class1.dynamicArray[0]; // Stepping over this statement results in a warning: 
                                        // "Warning: access made to unwritten array element. Using default value."
                                        // Note: This is actually expected since the value at that 
                                        //       position has not been initialized yet.  The warning
                                        //       simply indicates a default value has been used. 
```
Fixed length arrays were introduced into BridgePoint in 2007 [3].  When this 
was done, a class named Dimensions was introduced and every model element
that may contain dimensions was given a new 1:M conditional association to this 
new Dimensions class.  The cardinality of this relationship represents the 
number of dimensions the model element has.   Prior to this change, each of 
these model elements contained an attribute named "Dimensions" or "Return 
Dimensions" that was of type Dimension_Type.  Dimension_Type was an Enumeration 
data type that had 9 values: One .. Eight (and None).  The value of One..Eight
contained text strings that look like this:
```
[]
[][]
[][][]
```
By default the tool set the value to "None" and in that case, the user would 
see a value of "0" for Dimension.  The tool managed the display in the 
properties view and the initialization of the attributes with several utility 
functions that served to convert the string-based representation defined in the 
Dimensions_Type enumeration into an integer value. 

When the Dimensions class was introduced the Dimensions_Type enumeration and its 
supporting utility functions were removed. With the fixed-length array support 
[3], the Dimensions/Return Dimensions attributes were changed from type 
Dimension_Type to type string, and support was put in-place to allow the user
to create dimension strings of their own choosing by editing the Dimension/Return 
Dimension value in the properties view. This allowed users to create multi- 
dimensional arrays that were a mix of fixed-length and dynamic length.  For 
example:
```
[][2][][2]
```
An issue that had to be considered was how to differentiate a fixed-length 
array from a dynamic array.  The design describes this: [4 - 6.1.1.5]
```
6.1.1.5 The 'Dimensions' class shall carry an integer attribute; 'elementCount'. 
        A value of 0 indicates that the array is dynamically sized.  Numeric 
        values of 1 or more indicate that it is a fixed-size array. Each 
        dimension of the array is limited to a different specified number of 
        elements.  
```
Additionally, [4] states that for every model element with dimensions, a new 
operation shall be added to determine the number of dimensions:
```
6.1.1.3 Each of these classes shall have an operation, getDimensionsCnt() or
        getReturnDimensionsCnt() that returns the number of dimensions.

		Example:
		        
        select many dims related by self->S_DIM[R51];
		dimensions = cardinality dims;
		return dimensions;
``` 

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 During execution, dynamic arrays shall have an initial length of 0.

5. Analysis
-----------

5.1  Analysis of the problem-case called out in the background above revealed
that the problem has actually been present in the tool for many, many years.
The problem was present even before fixed-length arrays were introduced [3] in 
BridgePoint v1.5.3.

After [3] was introduced code was added to distinguish fixed-length arrays from
dynamic-length arrays.  As described in the background, Dimensions.elementCount
is used and if the value is 0 we know the array is a dynamic-length array.  In 
this case, the tool determines the array length by traversing ->RV_VIA[3302] 
(Runtime Value - Value in Array) to determine the actual number of elements
in the array.

5.1.1 There was an error in V_VAL.computeValue, when dealing with an instance
of type Array Length Value (V_ALV) (specifically dynamic length arrays) the
code was determining the length of the array by spinning over the Value In Array
instances (RV_VIA) to find the highest index and then adding 1 to the index.
It added 1 to the index because indexes are 0-based.  The problem is, it was
doing this without considering the fact that the array may not have any elements
yet, and thus an array with 0 elements was being treated as though it had 1
element.   

6. Design
---------
6.1 The OAL in V_VAL.computeValue() was clarified to clearly distinguish index
from length, and in the case where there is no index (because there are no
elements) the 1 is not added.   

6.1.1 A search was done on all places where we traverse ->RV_VIA[3302] to 
attempt to find other places this same error was made, and there was 1 more.
It was in RV_RV:.Label, so this same fix was applied there too. This fixes
the problem where the label associated with an array in the variables view has
the element count wrong in the same situation.


7. Design Comments
------------------
none

8. Unit Test
------------
8.1 Verify that during execution dynamic arrays are properly initialized with a
length of 0.

* create a model that has a component with just 1 class.  The class shall have
2 attributes: 
	* integer dynamicArray1[]
	* integer dynamicArray2[][]
* Create a function in the model with the following OAL:
```
create object instance class1 of c1; 

// First look at dimension 1
dynArr1_1 = class1.dynamicArray1;
dynArr1_Length1 = class1.dynamicArray1.length;
if (dynArr1_Length1 != 0)
	LOG::LogFailure(message:"Failure 1");
end if;
dynArr1_Element = class1.dynamicArray1[0];
if (dynArr1_Element != 0)
	LOG::LogFailure(message:"Failure 2");
end if;
dynArr1_Length2 = class1.dynamicArray1.length;
if (dynArr1_Length2 != 0)
	LOG::LogFailure(message:"Failure 3");
end if;
class1.dynamicArray1[0] = 1;
dynArr1_Length3 = class1.dynamicArray1.length;
if (dynArr1_Length3 != 1)
	LOG::LogFailure(message:"Failure 4");
end if;
class1.dynamicArray1[1] = 2;
dynArr1_Length4 = class1.dynamicArray1.length;
if (dynArr1_Length4 != 2)
	LOG::LogFailure(message:"Failure 5");
end if;
dynArr1_1 = class1.dynamicArray1;

// now look at dimension 2
dynArr2_1 = class1.dynamicArray2[0];
dynArr2_Length1 = class1.dynamicArray2[0].length;
if (dynArr1_Length4 != 0)
	LOG::LogFailure(message:"Failure 6");
end if;
dynArr2_Element = class1.dynamicArray2[0][0];
if (dynArr2_Element != 0)
	LOG::LogFailure(message:"Failure 7");
end if;
dynArr2_Length2 = class1.dynamicArray2[0].length;
if (dynArr2_Length2 != 0)
	LOG::LogFailure(message:"Failure 8");
end if;
class1.dynamicArray2[0][0] = 1;
dynArr2_Length3 = class1.dynamicArray2[0].length;
if (dynArr2_Length3 != 1)
	LOG::LogFailure(message:"Failure 9");
end if;
class1.dynamicArray2[0][1] = 2;
dynArr2_Length4 = class1.dynamicArray2[0].length;
if (dynArr2_Length4 != 2)
	LOG::LogFailure(message:"Failure 10");
end if;
dynArr2_1 = class1.dynamicArray2[0];

```
	
* execute the function above
* Result  There are no errors logged


End
---

