---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Allow graphically placing child components within parent component when parent component is selected
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
When inside a parent component if the user selects the parent component 
boundary the tool does not allow components to be created using the palette.

2. History
----------

3. Document References
----------------------
[1] Clearquest  Issue dts0100974785

4. Background
-------------

Reproducible case:
- Create a component (C1)
- Open the C1 component diagram
- Select the edge (boundary) of C1
-R Boundary is selected
- Select the component type from the Palette
- Attempt to create a new component in C1
R Error! Component creation is not allowed
- Deselect C1
- Select the component type from the Palette
- Attempt to create a new component in C1
R Component is created successfully.

5. Requirements
---------------
5.1 When inside a parent component a user shall be able to create a new 
    component regardless of if the parent component boundary is selected or not.

6. Work Required
----------------

In bp/ui/graphics/parts/DiagramEditPart.java::getTargetEditPart(), there is
a conditional expression where we check for selection.  It looks like this:

     @Override
      public EditPart getTargetEditPart(Request request) {
...
                  if (getViewer().getSelectedEditParts().contains(
                              getChildren().get(0))) {
                        return super.getTargetEditPart(request);
                  }
...


This is to handle the case where a user selects the container and drags it 
such that the mouse is within its own boundaries.  The problem is that 
this code is getting hit for creations as well, and this is why the creation 
is not allowed. 

To resolve the issue, add a check for a boundary change, this allows this code 
to only get hit for a move or resize. This change allows the element to be 
created from the palette when the boundary of the target is selected.

The changed code looks like this:

	@Override
	public EditPart getTargetEditPart(Request request) {
...
			if (getViewer().getSelectedEditParts().contains(
					getChildren().get(0))
					&& request instanceof ChangeBoundsRequest) {
				return super.getTargetEditPart(request);
			}
...

7. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
None

8. Unit Test
------------
8.1  Assure a component can be created when inside a component diagram and 
     the parent is selected.
- Create a component (C1)
- Open the C1 component diagram
- Select the edge (boundary) of C1
-R Boundary is selected
- Select the component type from the Palette
- Attempt to create a new component in C1
R Component creation is allowed

9. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: Review-dts0100

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.graphics/src/com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.graphics.parts/
    DiagramEditPart.java


End
---

