---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Hover over Port or  State machine small icons on class model, then move mouse away from tooltip, cause internal NPE
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
  When hover with mouse cursor on Port or State Machine icon (in ModelClass) to
 pop up their tooltip, then move the cursor away to hide the tooltip, an 
 internal NPE is triggered. This issue is to fix this.


2. Document References
----------------------
[1] CQ DEI dts0101051962 - Hover over Port or  State machine small icons on 
		class model, then move mouse away from tooltip, cause internal NPE  
[2] CQ DEI  dts0101050637 - Tooltip Manual Test  

3. Background
-------------
	The design of the tooltip is altered more than one time. originally each
    graphical editor had single BPToolTipHelper responsible to draw any tooltip
    associated with model element resides on this editor. Then changed to
    create BPToolTipHelper each time needed to draw ToolTip. Finally associate
    each model element on canvas with its own BPToolTipHelper.

	Due to these changes, the ToolTip popup draw condition in the helper 
    need to be changed to match the final design.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 ToolTip shall not cause NPE.

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1 The NPE happens because the ToolTip display condition allow to draw the 
	tooltip figure even when it is Null.
    
5.2 The condition in com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.graphics.editor.BPToolTipHelper.displayToolTipNear(IFigure, IFigure, int, int) 89efdda
	need to be changed as follow: 

Before:  

	if (tip != null && hoverSource != currentTipSource || ReplaceShell )  

After:  

	(tip != null && !isShowing())  


And also delete field "ReplaceShell " 89efdda.  
This filed was used to be able to redraw DetailedTooltip window for the 
same model element after hiding SimpleToolTip. As the control condition in
displayToolTipNear, "ReplaceShell" is not needed anymore.
 

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
Testing found a case where hovering over an element's floating text causes an
IllegalArgumentException.  This is due to the caching of the created tooltip
helpers in GraphicalEditor.  The helper was being cached against the FlowPage
figure of the floating text rather than the parent figure.  All other mouse
event handling is propagated to the parent figure, so later code was finding
different handlers to work against.

7. Unit Test
------------
7.1 run manual test [2]

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: dts0101050637_NM

<pre>

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.graphics/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/graphics/editor/
	GraphicalEditor.java
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.graphics [internal dts0101051962_NM]/src/com/mentor/
    nucleus/bp/ui/graphics/editor/BPToolTipHelper.java

doc-internal [internal dts0101051962_NM]/notes/dts0101051962/
    dts0101051962_int.md


</pre>

End
---

