---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Take advantage of ant <parallel> during our build process
### xtUML Project Implementation Note


1. Abstract
-----------
Ant offers a tag `<parallel>` that will run tasks contained within in parallel 
rather than sequentially.  This issue implements using this feature in the bp.core
build.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 259, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/259    
[2] Issues 35, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/35, dts0100919690 - Separate the open source code from the closed source code.    
[3] https://github.com/xtuml/internal/blob/35_919690-3/doc-internal/notes/dts0100919690/Build_performance_improvement_brainstorming.md,
  Notes from build speedup brainstorming session.    
[4] Editor Issue 30, https://github.com/xtuml/editor/issues/30, Remove need for extra environment variables.   
[5] Editor Issue 31, https://github.com/xtuml/editor/issues/31, Consider shipping com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools.      

3. Background
-------------
The work in [2] changes our internal BridgePoint build to use a java-based
pre-builder in front of MC-Java.  It also splits the bp.core build from one 
large build chunk into four individual chunks containing different parts of the
ooaofooa model in bp.core.   

We had a brainstorming session to talk about build performance improvements and 
one of the suggestions [3, #7] was to run generator in parallel where possible.   

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1  Use the ant parallelization tag in bp.core build.  

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1  Add the `<parallel>` tag around the four-part build of ooaofooa in `bp.core/generate.xml`.
  This four part build is introduced by [2].      
5.2  MC-Java's build target `generate-with-file_io.java` is only used by the bp.core build.   
Modify this target to run generator in a unique working directory under `gen/code_generation` 
instead of at the root of the bp.core plug-in source.  This is required so the temporary data
created by generator runs does not conflict and trample over itself.    
5.3  Add a new front-end perl script for the `generate-with-file_io.java` target to call that
creates the temporary directories as needed.    
5.4  Currently MC-Java assumes files it writes are in paths based off of the plug-in root directory. 
This is not always the case now with core builds under temporary working directories.  Thus, we must
modify the build to set the plug-in project root into the environment so MC-Java can read it out
and use it instead of assuming the working path as described previously.    

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1  In order to successfully use/test this new feature, the following changes must
  be made to the development environment:   
  - Edit Launcher.bat and change PT_HOME to use / instead of \ in the folder path
  - Copy the new script `generate-with-file_io.pl` from  `git\xtuml\internal\doc-internal\process\templates\checklists\development-workspace-setup\BridgePointDev\bin\`
  into your `$PT_HOME/bin` folder
  - Copy the updated plug-in `com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.6` from  `git\xtuml\internal\doc-internal\process\templates\checklists\development-workspace-setup\dropins\`
  into your development environment's eclipse/dropins folder

6.2  The HOWTO instructions for setting up a new development environment are updated
  to reflect the changes specified in 6.1.  The instructions are streamlined to 
  remove an extra clone of the xtuml/internal repository.  The default preferences are
  updated to turn off "Build automatically".  We found that having build automatically 
  turned on caused an unwanted build to start while following the HOWTO.  Developers 
  have also experienced this unwanted build startup while simply creating new workspaces 
  and importing the preferences.   
  
6.3  The xtumlmc_build.exe in `work/BridgePointDev` is updated to match the latest 
  shipping version.  This change was not required, but just a maintenance item to keep
  it up to date.  

6.4  During the development phase of this issue, comments arose that we should get away
  from PT_HOME_DRIVE and PT_HOME environment variables to make the nightly build of the
  editor go more smoothly.  This is raised as a separate issue ([4]).  
    
6.5  An issue [5] is raised to consider shipping bp.internal.tools at some point in the 
  future to keep opening up as much as we can.   
  
7. Unit Test
------------
7.1  Since the changes are just to our internal build, the test simply assures that the build still 
works without errors.
  - Run clean all projects
  - Build `bp.core`
  - __R__ Build is successful
  - Turn on Build automatically
  - __R__ Build completes and no errors are indicated
  - __R__ No files are marked dirty
    
8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 35_259_promotion_2

NOTE: This work is in conjunction with and indeed branched from 35-919690-3 and is intended to be
promoted with that branch.  The changeset here is a diff between 35_259_promotion_2 and that branch, _not_ master.

<pre>

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.als/.externalToolBuilders/
    OAL Builder.launch
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.als/generate.xml

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.compare/
    .externalToolBuilders/Compare Build.launch

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/.externalToolBuilders/
    Core Builder.launch
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/generate.xml

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.core/
    .externalToolBuilders/IO Core Builder.launch

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.mdl/
    .externalToolBuilders/IO Mdl Builder.launch

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.sql/
    .externalToolBuilders/IO Builder.launch

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.model.compare/
    .externalToolBuilders/Compare Build.launch

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.canvas/
    .externalToolBuilders/Canvas Builder.launch

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.explorer/
    .externalToolBuilders/Explorer Builder.launch

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.properties/
    .externalToolBuilders/Properties_Builder.launch

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.session/
    .externalToolBuilders/SessionExplorer_builder.launch

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.text/
    .externalToolBuilders/UITextBuilder.launch

doc-internal/checklists/Leo/244_promotion.chk
doc-internal/notes/259/259_int.md
doc-internal/notes/263_dts0101077921/
    263_dts0101077921_dnt.md
doc-internal/notes/dts0100919690/
    dts0100919690dnt-2.md
doc-internal/notes/dts0100919690/
    dts0100919690int-2.md
doc-internal/process/
    HOWTO-create-new-development-workspace.md
doc-internal/process/
    HOWTO-create-new-development-workspace-Linux.md
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/EclipsePreferences.epf
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/BridgePointDev/bin/generate-with-file_io.pl
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/BridgePointDev/bin/xtumlmc_gen_erate
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/BridgePointDev-Linux/bin/
    generate-with-file_io.pl
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.3/plugin.xml
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.3/tools.jar
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.3/icons/bp_debug.gif
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.3/icons/green-bp.gif
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.3/icons/refresh.gif
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.6/plugin.xml
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.6/tools.jar
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.6/build_settings/build_setting.properties
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.6/icons/bp_debug.gif
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.6/icons/green-bp.gif
doc-internal/process/templates/checklists/
    development-workspace-setup/dropins/
    com.mentor.nucleus.bp.internal.tools_1.0.6/icons/refresh.gif
doc-internal/qa/results/Leo/35/
    Unit_test_summary.txt
doc-internal/review-minutes/Leo/259_int.rvm.md
doc-internal/review-minutes/Leo/
    35_919690_int_rvm.md

MC-Java/build.xml
MC-Java/enums.inc
MC-Java/java.arc
MC-Java/translate_oal.inc


</pre>

End
---

