---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Link with Editor has several problems
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
BridgePoint Model Explorer link with editor functionality is not behaving in a
standard Eclipse way. This issue is raised to investigate and improve 
this behavior.


2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 1, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/74

[2] ClearQuest issue dts0100650381
- Support GEF based editor

[3] ClearQuest issue dts0100650381
- Support GEF based editor (phase II)
	

3. Background
-------------
Selecting link with editor is currently causing the canvas selection to be 
thrown out as opposed to having it used as the selection for linking with 
the appropriate element in Model Explorer.  This is very annoying to users 
because after this initial failure selecting the element on the canvas again 
does properly link the canvas element with model explorer element.

This link with editor feature  was introduced a long time ago, but it was 
updated with the introduction of GEF-based graphics [2].  Before this change, 
the previous link with editor support in Model Explorer relied on the fact that
the graphics uses the BP selection manager.  This is still true except that
after this change we added the EditPart to the selection.  Therefore 
the Model Explorer code now adapts the selection.  Additionally, when selecting 
elements in Model Explorer the graphics side adapts the core selections to 
the representing edit parts.

Additionally, issue [3] again made changes to the link with editor feature to
support zooming to canvas to the Model Explorer selection.  A new interface was 
added, ILinkWithEditorListener, in the ui.explorer plug-in. The interface has 
one method, notifySelectionLink() which is called when a selection has been 
transfered from the Model Explorer to the currently opened editor.  The 
ModelEditor class in ui.graphics was modified to implement this interface.  
The implementation in ModelEditor traverses the selection looking
for any edit part that is not at least partially visible.  If it finds one then
the diagram is zoomed to the selection.

Investigation found that the problem was that the EditorView::linkToEditor()
was setting the tree selection into the canvas without checking to see if
there was a tree selection or not.  It seemed to be assuming that because the
Explorer was the active view there was a selection.

The fix was to watch for this condition, and if there was no tree selection 
use the canvas selection and set the tree based on it.  Thus this change 
essentially makes link with editor work in a bi-directional manner.
   
4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 If there is an element selected in the tree when link with editor is 
selected that selection shall be transferred to the core selection.
4.2 If there is not an element selected in the tree when link with editor is 
selected then the canvas selection shall be used.
- If there is no canvas selection no action will occur
- If there is a canvas selection, it shall be transferred to the tree.

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1. Introduced a method to the ILinkWithEditorListener interface.
- public NonRootModelElement getFirstSelectedElement()
	- This modthod is used to acquire the canvas selection from the ModelView. 
	Specifically, it is used in ModelView.java::linkToEditor().   

5.2 Modified the generation of the method ExplorerView.java::linkToEditor().  
- Check for an empty tree selection before sync'ing the core selection
with the tree selection.  If this check is not made, the empty tree selection 
is passed to the core selection which causes any editor selection to be lost.
- If the tree selection is empty then look to see if there is an editor 
selection.  If there is an editor selection then use it.  To use it, we must 
get the NonRootModelElement selected from ShapeEditPart selected on
the canvas.  To do this a new method was added to the ILinkWithEditor 
interface (ILinkWithEditor::getFirstSelectedElement()).

5.3 In ModelEditor.java add an implementation for ILinkWithEditor::getFirstSelectedElement()
- This returns the first selected NonRootModelElement encountered in the 
selection list, or null if no elements are selected in the editor.
	
6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
None

7. Unit Test
------------
This is a manual test.

- Turn off link with editor 
- open Model Explorer
- open any package (we shall refer to this as package1)
- select any element in the package (we shall refer to this as element1)
- open another editor for another package (package2) and  model element (we shall refer to this as element2)
- Select collpase all (then "-" icon) to colla[se the ME tree
- On the canvas select package 
- Open package1 and select element1
- turn on link with editor
- R The ME tree is expanded and the proper element is linked
- Open package2
- R It DOES link with editor
- return to package1
- R It links with editor too.

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: Review-dts0100942480-74

<pre>
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.explorer [internal Review-dts0100942480-74]/arc/
	create_explorer_view.inc

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.explorer [internal Review-dts0100942480-74]/src/com/
	mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/explorer/ILinkWithEditorListener.java

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.ui.graphics [internal Review-dts0100942480-74]/src/com/
	mentor/nucleus/bp/ui/graphics/editor/ModelEditor.java

doc-internal [internal Review-dts0100942480-74]/notes/dts010094280_74-int.md
</pre>
