---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Link with Editor has several problems
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
BridgePoint Model Explorer link with editor functionality is not behaving in a
standard Eclipse way. This issue is raised to investigate and improve 
this behavior.


2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 1, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/74
[2] ClearQuest issue dts0100650381
- Support GEF based editor
	- When the GEF-based editor was introduced the Link With Editor 
	functionality was changed.  This note describes why and what was changed.
	It does this in section 6.19 (Support link with editor)  
[3] ClearQuest issue dts0100650381
- Support GEF based editor (phase II)
	- Section 5.2 and 6.2 (Enhance link with editor support)
	- This note describes changes made to the link with editor functionality to
	enhance link with editor support by introducing "zoom to selection" 
	functionality on the canvas for element(s) selected in model explorer.
	

3. Background
-------------
Selecting link with editor is currently causing the canvas selection to be 
thrown out as opposed to having it used as the selection for linking with 
the appropriate element in Model Explorer.  This is very annoying to users 
because after this initial failure selecting the element on the canvas again 
does properly link the canvas element with model explorer element.
  
4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Link with editor shall link to the proper Model Explorer element when 
a canvas model element is selected prior to link with editor being selected. 

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1. Item 1  

5.2. Item 2  

5.3. Item 3  

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
None

7. Unit Test
------------
This is a manual test.

_- Turn off link with editor 
_- open Model Explorer
_- open any package (we shall refer to this as package1)
_- select any element in the package (we shall refer to this as element1)
_- open another editor for another package (package2) and  model element (we shall refer to this as element2)
_- Select collpase all (then "-" icon) to colla[se the ME tree
_- On the canvas select package 
_- Open package1 and select element1
_- turn on link with editor
_R The ME tree is expanded and the proper element is linked
_-  Open package2
_R It DOES link with editor
_- return to package1
_R It links with editor too.

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: Review-dts0100942480-74


End
---

