---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Update build scripts for new mcmc executables
### xtUML Project Implementation Note


1. Abstract
-----------
The first phase of the model-based model compiler is complete.  The product of
this phase is an executable that is called by xtumlmc_build ahead of generator.
This note describes the work performed to integrate the tool into the nightly
build.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 86, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/86  - headline issue  
[2] CQ DEI dts0101009668 - headline issue  
[3] SVN repository - http://wv-svn-01.wv.mentorg.com/svn/sle/xtuml/trunk/extra_files_for_build      

3. Background
-------------
The ```xtumlmc_build.exe``` and other binary tools that are mirrored into multiple
locations in the installed application (typically the ```mc3020/bin/``` folder
of each model compiler plug-in) are stored in revision control under SVN in
a single location [3].  The build scripts copy the files around into the various
target locations during the nightly build process.  

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1  The model-based model compiler executables shall be placed into the correct
  locations by the nightly build.
  
5. Work Required
----------------
5.1  The script ```< git >/xtuml/internal/utilities/build/configure_external_dependencies.sh``` handles
  pulling the SVN data during the nightly build and copying it to the proper locations.  The 
  compiled ```xtumlmc_build.exe``` application lives in all the same locations that the new
  Windows and Linux model-based MC executables will live.  Thus, we can follow the same pattern
  of file handling for the new EXEs that we do for ```xtumlmc_build.exe```.  
5.1.1  At this time, we do not want to use the new-style model-based MC for the 
  CPP, SystemC, or VHDL model compilers.  The script removes ```mcmc``` and ```mcmc.exe``` from 
  the ```mc3020/bin/``` under each of these model compiler plug-ins.

5.2  ```xtumlmc_build.exe``` has a block that checks for the existence of ```< bin dir >/mcmc``` in 
  order to determine if it should use the new or old-style build process.  If it is found
  then it invokes ```< bin dir >/mcmc```.  Even when ```mcmc``` and ```mcmc.exe``` exist in 
  the same folder, the system launches the correct tool for the OS to run.  Therefore, we do
  not have to do any other file manipulations in the post-installer to move files around for
  one OS or another.  
  
6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
None.

7. Unit Test
------------
7.1  This is not really a unit test per se since it is not tested before the work
  is done.  But the author will verify that the nightly build placed the files in 
  the correct location after the promotion runs on master the first time.

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: 86_build_updates

utilities/build/configure_external_dependencies.sh

End
---

