---

Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Do not delete constants during upgrade
### xtUML Project Implementation Note

1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes the changes to address an issue where constants were being
removed during upgrade.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 89, https://github.com/xtuml/doc/issues/89  
[2] CQ Issue: dts0101010194 - Failure in dts0100683387  
[3] CQ Issue: dts0100683387 - Manual Test : testing Constant data and Array  
                                               Attribute in SE & Spotlight views


3. Background
-------------
[3], when tested, showed problems during the import of the test model specified.
The issue was related to parse errors and a non-executable model.  This was due
to constants being removed during upgrade.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Constanst shall not be removed during upgrade.

5. Work Required
----------------
5.1 Prevent removal of constants during ugprade

The GlobalsUtil.java class looks to see if a package has user defined data
types.  If it does not then the utility class will delete the package as it will
be a core type package only.  This utility did not consider constants.  The
archetype, generate_globals_util.arc, is modified to consider constants.

6. Implementation Comments
--------------------------
6.1 Properly unrelate R1506

After resolving the headline issue it was noticed that we were not fully tearing
down R1506.  The code in GenericPackageUpgradeHelper was calling an unrelate
across R1506 against the same two instances twice.  The code is changed to
unrelate from the constant specification.

7. Unit Test
------------
- Rerun [3]  
R The test passes

8. Code Changes
---------------
Branch name: Review-dts0101010194

com.mentor.nucleus.bp.core/arc/generate_globals_util.arc
com.mentor.nucleus.bp.io.mdl/src/com/mentor/nucleus/bp/io/mdl/upgrade/
	GenericPackageUpgradeHelper.java

End
---

