---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Training Collateral Enhancement
### xtUML Project Analysis Note


1. Abstract
-----------
A customer has demanded stronger training for xtUML modeling and
BridgePoint tool usage.  This note specifies requirements for
enhanced training collateral.  Enhancements will include:
- motivational presentation(s)
- instructor-led, classroom training with theory, case study and exercises
- self-paced individual training focused on mechanics
- grading and evaluation
- indexing and referencing

The goal is to increase the effectiveness of training such that companies
who pay for training are able to establish a base of competent xtUML
modelers efficiently.  A parallel goal is to enable a motivated individual
with sufficient technical background independently to learn to use the tool
and to build syntactically correct models.


2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 141, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/141 - 
    Analyze xtUML Training  
[2] CQ dts0101022089 - Analyze an Improved BridgePoint Training Class  
[3] https://www.coursera.org/ - Coursera On-Line Training Framework  
[4] xtUML-BridgePoint-Training.docs - Training Vision to Ericsson  
[5] Issues 164, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/164 - xtUML Motiviation  
    ClearQuest Issue:  dts0101037425
[6] Issues 165, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/165 - xtUML Modeling Course 2.0  
    ClearQuest Issue:  dts0101037428
[7] Issues 166, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/166 - xtUML Self-Paced Course  
    ClearQuest Issue:  dts0101037429
[8] Issues 167, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/167 - Self-Paced Infrastructure  
    ClearQuest Issue:  dts0101037431

3. Background
-------------
Read [4].  Visit [3] and spend 5 minutes looking at examples (Cryptography I).

(excerpt from [4])
In the 1980s and 1990s, Project Technology was successful teaching the
Shlaer-Mellor predecessor to the xtUML method.  During this period the
method was taught in three separate courses, each nominally four days in
length.  The exercises were done with paper and pencil, so syntactic
correctness and the ability to execute and automatically translate the
resulting models were less important.  Instead, the focus was on
learning proper use of the various modeling constructs and creating
good abstractions.  The three four-day courses in this series were
(translating S-M nomenclature to xtUML):

- Components, Interfaces, and Classes
- State Models, Action Language and Execution
- Model Compiler Design and Construction

However, this was an era in which managers valued training.  The
following decade saw a shift away from knowledge and skill acquisition
toward tooling.  Rather than educate their engineers, managers sought to
arm them with tools with the hope that doing so would increase
productivity.  Over time, market pressure drove the compression of the
first two modeling classes into a single, five-day affair.  Several
modeling constructs and idioms were eliminated from the new one-week
modeling class for lack of time to cover them.  Tool usage was taught
during a separate three-day course, with the modeling course as a
prerequisite.  “Eight days of training?!!!”  “We simply cannot afford to
have our engineers take off eight full days for training!!”  “The
release is due out next month!!”

Eventually, market forces demanded a combined course that covered
modeling and tool usage in less than a week.  The result is the current
four-day course that attempts to cover what was in the past eleven days
of material.  The current audience for these training courses has a
substantially different educational background and experience base from
that of the students in the 1980s and 1990s.  However, these two generations
of engineers share an important trait.  Nearly all of them have been
trained to write procedural code rendered in imperative languages like
C, C++, and Java before having been introduced to the notion of first
creating abstractions around which code will eventually be written.
The proposal below leverages the much broader range of technology
available while recognizing that the fundamental challenge of teaching
object-oriented, model-based development remains much the same as it was
in 1990.


4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Motivation  
4.1.1 There shall be collateral for a motivational presentation(s) that
explains and demonstrates the incentives for modeling with eXecutable
and Translatable UML.  
4.1.2 The above collateral will be deliverable by a live individual with
experience in xtUML to a live audience.  
4.1.3 There shall be a self-paced, recorded/electronic version of the
above presentation.  The self-paced version may have a lower effectiveness
than when presented live by an experienced xtUML modeler, but the
effectiveness must be high enough to guide motivated individuals with
a clear need and sufficient technical background.  

4.2 xtUML Modeling Course  
4.2.1 There shall be collateral for a live instructor-led class that includes:
- historical highlights to establish context
- theoretical background of executable modeling
- compelling, pedagogical case study
- exercises with solutions  

4.2.2 The above collateral shall be deliverable by a live individual with
experience in xtUML to a face-to-face audience.  
4.2.3 There shall be a self-paced, recorded/electronic version of the
above material.  The self-paced version may have a lower effectiveness
than when presented live by an experienced xtUML modeler, but the
effectiveness should be high enough to guide motivated individuals with
a clear need and sufficient technical background.  
4.2.4 Existing materials may be repurposed for the updated classroom
training.  
4.2.5 Low-level details of tool usage shall be omitted from the classroom
training.  This can be accomplished by pre- or post- requisite tool
training or some other equally effective means of enabling a focus on
theory, examples and exercises centered around modeling.

4.3 Self-Paced Tool Training  
4.3.1 There shall be collateral for on-line, electronic, self-paced
training courses.  
4.3.2 The self-paced courses shall focus on the mechanics of modeling using
the xtUML Editor and BridgePoint.  
4.3.3 Courses shall require student interaction through questions
and quizzing along the way.  
4.3.4 Courses shall be indexed to a fine granularity such that students
and modelers can use the material as a reference guide.  
4.3.5. The self-paced course shall be sequenced along one or more
task-oriented workflows that guide the student step-by-step to the
accomplishment of a typical and particular modeling task.  Workflows
will include at least:  
4.3.5.1 System Documentation Workflow  
4.3.5.2 Embedded Software Workflow  
4.3.5.3 Hardware Module Workflow  
4.3.5.4 System-Level Modeling Workflow  
4.3.5.5 Virtual Platform Workflow  
4.3.5.6 Test Workflow

4.4 Tracking, Grading and Evaluation  
4.4.1 Tracking of Students/Users  
4.4.1.1 Each student will be identified (perhaps by name and email address).
The material covered by the student will be recorded and retained for a
period of 1 year from last login.  
4.4.2 Responses supplied by students to questions will be recorded and
retrievable at a later date.  Response data will be retained for a period
of 1 year from last login.  
4.4.3 Each training segment will be accompanied by at least 1 graded quiz
question.  The focus of these questions will be engagement, information
retention, key point highlighting, progress feedback and progress tracking.  
4.4.4 A threshhold of correct responses will be required/recommended before
allowing a student to continue.  

4.5 Indexing and Referencing  
4.5.1 A "reference manual" of the training material will be viewable online
and be easily searchable.  xtUML Editor (and BridgePoint) users must be able
to find pointed "how-to"s for a good percentage of modeling tool tasks.

4.6 Involvment of the xtUML Community  
4.6.1 Online training collateral shall be easily extendible by members of
the xtUML Community.  
4.6.2 Additions will require no approval of a moderator.  
4.6.3 A moderator shall be able to remove or reclassify innapropriate or
incorrect materials.

4.7 Licensing  
4.7.1 xtUML course collateral shall be licensed under Creative Commons 1.0 (CC0).

4.8 Accessibility  
4.8.1 Training collateral shall be accessible through links from xtuml.org.  
4.8.2 Configuration management for final versions of collateral will be on
the open xtuml github.com repositories.  
4.8.3 Google/Bing/etc. searches will have visibility to the materials.  
4.8.4 Packaged materials can (also) live in access-controlled locations
commercially administered by Mentor Graphics.  

4.9 Salability  
4.9.1 These materials will be packageable for sale (by Mentor Graphics).  
4.9.2 Licensing will need to be reviewed to be compatible with Mentor
sales and licensing processes.  

4.10 Time Constraints
4.10.1 Recommended timing of course material shall be recommended to students.  
4.10.2 Reduced effectiveness due to deviation from these time constraints
shall be the responsibility of the student/(customer).  


5. Analysis
-----------

6. Work Required
----------------
6.1 [5] The base of this collateral exists in PowerPoint presentations and
videos.  Refinement and final production of this presentation will need
to assemble the available material.  Also, the material then needs to
be placed under CC0 and stored/linked on xtuml.org and github.

6.2 [6] The present materials will serve as the base for the new course.  
6.2.1 Update the slides to omit (most) references to tool specifics.  
6.2.2 Update the exercises to use pencil, paper and other tool non-
specific mechanisms.  
6.2.3 Rework the overall flow to include all of the key concepts needed
to enable learners to go from spec to model with understanding.  

6.3 [7]
6.4 [8]
6.5 [8]
6.6 [8]
6.7 [8]
6.8 [8]

6.9 Work together with Mentor Sales, SLE Marketing and CSD to ensure
materials can be packaged in a way that satisfies requirements for
legally selling them.

7. Acceptance Test
------------------

End
---

