---

Copyright 2014 Mentor Graphics Corp.  All Rights Reserved.

---

# Address multiple issues found during customer visit
### xtUML Project Design Note

1. Abstract
-----------
This note describes multiple changes that address a number of customer issues.

2. Document References
----------------------
[1] Issues 204, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/204   
[2] Issues 195, https://github.com/xtuml/internal/issues/195   
[3] CQ Issue: dts0101042909 - Merge of changes in state machine causes for an
                              incoming transition to became orphaned   
[4] CQ Issue: dts0101042915 - Impossible to resolve conflict on a state machine
                              so that local (left) change is accepted as final   
[5] CQ Issue: dts0101009925 - Merging addition of state machine from two
                              branches   
[6] CQ Issue: dts0101040652 - Graphical elements should not be used in the merge
                              process   
[7] CQ Issue: dts0101009924 - Exceptions during difference drawing   
[8] CQ Issue: dts0101039702 - Checkout of another branch corrupts canvas of a
                              package with components   
[9] CQ Issue: dts0101039330 - Interface port floating text disappears when
                              restoring a deleted interface operation using
                              local file   
The DR for references 10 - 14 is: dts0101048398   
[10] Create problem markers for integrity issues after transactions and file
     modifications - SR: http://gtsweb.wv.mentorg.com/SRExport/2616961661   
[11] State machine description tooltips not working - SR: http://gtsweb.wv.mentorg.com/SRExport/2616960571   
[12] Use class name for key letters, keeping the key letters synchronized until
     manually changed. - SR: http://gtsweb.wv.mentorg.com/SRExport/2616956701   
[13] Remove git conflict annotations from the raw SQL data after viewing a model
     in xtUML compare - SR: http://gtsweb.wv.mentorg.com/SRExport/2616961671   
[14] Support jgit autocrlf=true configuration option in compare/merge - SR: http://gtsweb.wv.mentorg.com/SRExport/2616960581      
[15] /doc-internal/notes/CompareMergeEricssonTrip/dts0101042909/
             MergetoolMergeofchangesinstatemachinecausesforanincomingtransitiontobecameorphaned.pdf   
     This document describes the recreation steps for dts0101042909   
[16] /doc-internal/notes/CompareMergeEricssonTrip/dts0101042915/
             mergetoolImpossibletoresolveconflictsothatlocalleftchangeisacceptedasfinal.pdf   
     This document describes the recreation steps for dts0101042915   
       
3. Background
-------------
The CQ issues listed in the document references section above are currently
marked as highest priority by the customer.  These issues were resolved and
shown to the customer on-site.  During the on-site visit other issues were
brought up and worked on.  These issues are covered by references 10 - 14.

4. Requirements
---------------
4.1 Merging of state machine changes shall never leave a model orphaned   
4.2 Local changes shall be acceptable in a three-way merge when dealing with
    conflicts   
4.3 Merging additions of state machines from two branches shall be supported   
4.4 Graphical elements shall not be shown in the compare tree   
4.5 Problem markers shall be created for integrity issues   
4.6 Integrity checks shall be run after every transaction completion and every
    external file modification   
4.7 Key letters shall be synchronized with the class name until manually
    modified   

5. Analysis
-----------
5.1 dts0101042909

The issue here is that after an addition merge for a transition the resultant
model has an orphaned transition graphic.  This was due to an SEME entry not
existing in the final result.  In certain cases we may not copy the SEME over
or need to create a new one.  The other cases we may need to find an existing
SEME and convert it from a can't happen or an event ignored.

5.2 dts0101042915

The problem here is that no semantic change is being merged but a graphical
addition is.  The graphical change is not considered conflicting and so the user
is copying all of the non-conflicting changes over.  This is resulting in a
diagram with a connection that has no represented semantic element.  This will
no longer be an issue as the work to resolve [6] will remove graphics from the
compare editor and automatically resolve the differences for the user.

5.3 dts0101009925

This issue has to do with adding a state machine in two different branches on
the same class.  The compare engine currently works against the unique id of
an element for matching.  When a state machine is added to a class it is
assigned a unique id, if done in two separate branches this id will be
different.  If two users add a state machine in different branches and add a
good amount of data, this data should not be lost.  Instead the compare editor
shall consider the two state machines the same and allow the user to merge the
contents from each branch.

5.4 dts0101040652

This issue was a request from the customer to remove graphical data from the
compare editor.  This data only confuses the customer.  For merging the customer
was blindly copying all changes from the remote file that were not conflicting.
The tool shall remove the graphical data from the tree and automatically merge
all incoming changes whether or not they are conflicting.  The tool shall not
copy any changes from the remote that do not have a corresponding semantic
change.  This automatic merge shall be done at editor save time.

5.5 dts0101009924

The issue here is that the error log was being flooded due to an array out of
bounds exception.  These exceptions shall be prevented.

5.6 dts0101039702 and dts0101039330

[8] and [9] both show similar symptoms where graphical text is lost for a
connection.  Investigation shows that this is caused by a graphical element that
points at a stale semantic element.  A semantic element that has been reloaded
and thus has a new java instance.  The model change listener handles this in
most cases, yet in these two cases the semantic element does not live in the
same file as the graphical element.  The infrastructure sends a reload event for
elements that are the root of a file.  In these particular cases the component
file is reloaded which changes the interface references in a way that the
graphical element represents value requires updating.  The tool shall refresh
the represents value for all elements on the diagram containing the file root
element.

5.7 Integrity problem markers

Currently the tool will create a text based report after a user invokes the
integrity tool.  This is not ideal for users.  Rather the tool shall create
problem markers for any integrity issue found.  Additionally, the tool shall
automatically run an integrity check after all transactions as well as after
file modification.  The scope of the integrity check shall be the first parent
package or component found.

5.8 Use class name for key letter defaults

Customers would like to remove key letter requirements in the long term.  As
long as they are required to have key letters they would like them to
automatically match the class name.  On class creation the tool shall set the
key letters to the class name with any spaces removed.  On class rename the tool
shall update the key letters such that they match the name with spaces removed.
If a user modifies the key letters this synchronization shall not occur.

6. Design
---------
6.1 dts0101042909

The ModelMergeProcessor class is modified to create the required SEME element or
migrate and existing one.  

6.2 dts0101042915

To accept a left change the user has nothing to do.  The user was merging the
graphical element but not the semantic element.  This results in a connection
that points at nothing.  This is addressed by the changes in 6.4 below by
automatically handling graphical merge.

6.3 dts0101009925

To address this issue the tool is modified such that on class creation time two
new attributes are initialized, Ism_ID and Csm_ID.  These ids will be used for
all state machines created for the class.  This will only handle the case where
a class is in the root of a configuration management system before any branch
creates a state machine.  For the case where the ids have not been initialized
for the class the compare tool is modified to consider all state machines as
identical as long as they have the same parent class.  Additionally on load the
elements under a state machine all have their SM_ID values updated, which allows
for a true comparison and merge of the two state machines.  To always generate a
unique id for each state machine the tool uses the classes id as well as a
suffix, 'c' or 'i'.  It uses the hash code for each to generate a seed for the
IdAssigner class.  This seed guarantees that the same unique id will always be
created for a class. The IdAssigner class is modified to make the seed setting
method public.  A utility bridge is added that handles the seed creation. 

The same issue occurs with the graphical model instance, each branch will have
a GD_MD instance with a different id.  This is handled in the merge process by
considering to GD_MD instances as identical as long as their represented
semantic elements are identical.  During the merge any copied graphical elements
are hooked up with the destination GD_MD, effectively ignoring the GD_MD UUIDs.

6.3.1 Model compilers

The model compiler schemas must be updated to account for the two new attributes
added to the Model Class class.

6.4 dts0101040652

To remove graphical data from the compare tree the content providers and the
highlighting code must be modified.  In SynchronizedTreeViewer methods are added
that determine if a difference is graphical.  For any difference that is
graphical the content providers will ignore them, unless the content provider is
configured to show the data.  At comparison time we must have graphical data
included, we only want to exclude it in the UI.  Differences are also excluded
when highlighting tree items and drawing lines between differences in the tree.

In ModelContentMergeViewer graphics are automatically merged on save.  The
graphical data is merged according to 5.4.

6.5 dts0101009924

There was a case in TreeDifferenceContentProvider where the ordered children
size was less than the additional entries plus the current children length.
This can occur when there are multiple additions on one side of the tree.  To
address this we simply check for the case and then add the addition to the end
of the list.

6.6 dts0101039702 and dts0101039330

In CanvasModelListener the code that updates the graphical element represents
value is modified to update all graphical elements under a graphical model.

6.7 Integrity problem markers

The IntegrityChecker utility class is reworked in the following ways:

- The element passed has the first parent package or component used for the
integrity check
- Delete all existing problem markers before running the integrity check
- Create problem markers for all integrity issues found (created on the element
  that is the root of the file)

6.8 Use class name for key letter defaults

The tool is modified such that on class creation the class name with spaces
removed is used for the Key_Lett attribute value.  It is also changed such that
on class rename the key letters are updated unless the Key_Lett attribute value
has been manually modified by the user.

6.9 State machine description tooltips not working

The tooltip infrastructure relies on an element having a Descrip attribute.  For
the following elements this attribute is actually held in a supertype class:

S_EDT
S_SDT
S_UDT
SM_CRTXN
SM_STATE
SM_TXN

For each of these classes a new operation is added, getDescription.  These
operations navigate to the appropriate supertype and return its description.

The graphics code will now look for a method named Getdescription() using java
reflection if the getDescrip method was not found.

6.10 Remove git conflict annotations from the raw SQL data after viewing a model
     in xtUML compare

Git and eGit both leave patch annotations in a file unless the merge tool writes
to the file being merged.  Because of this a customer has wound up with git
patch annotations in their repository.  To prevent this the tool is changed to
write the file contents for every model comparison viewed on close of the
compare editor.  Merged files do not require this write step as they will have
already written to the file on save.

6.11 Support jgit autocrlf=true configuration option in compare/merge 

Git has an option, autocrlf, that when enabled gives our compare editor a
different stream format.  This stream format does not support the available()
method from the supertype InputStream.  This method is currently used to bail
out of trying a model load.  For this stream we must use the read() method to
read the stream contents.  If the first read does not return a -1 the tool is
changed to build a byte array that is then passed in a ByteArrayInputStream to
the importer.

7. Design Comments
------------------

8. Unit Test
------------
<pre>
All tests will but 8.11 will be automated.

8.1 dts0101042909

_- Recreate the model from [15]
_- Merge slave into master
_R Conflict is hit
_- Open the Merge Tool, Team > Merge Tool
_- Copy all non-conflicting changes from right to left
_R Only outgoing changes are left with one conflicting transition change
_- Select the transition change and use Copy change from right to left
_R There are only outgoing changes remaining
_- Save the editor
_- Open the state machine diagram
_R There are no orphaned transitions in the state machine

8.2 dts0101042915

_- Recreate the model from [16]
_- Merge slave into master
_R Conflict is hit
_- Open the Merge Tool, Team > Merge Tool
_- Copy all non-conflicting changes from right to left
_R Only outgoing and a conflicting change is present
_- Save the editor
_- Open the state machine diagram
_R All graphical elements are associated with a semantic element
   (no blank lines)

8.3 dts0101009925

_- Create a model that has a single package and a class
_- Branch the model as slave
_- In slave add a class state machine and an instance state machine
_- Add two states and an assigned transition between them
_- Commit the changes
_- Switch to master
_- Add a class state machine and instance state machine to the class
_- Add two states and an assigned transition between them
_- Commit the changes
_- Merge slave branch
_R Conflicting changes are found
_- Open the Merge Tool, Team > Merge Tool
_- Open the compare editor for the class state machine
_- Copy all non-conflicting changes from right to left
_- Save the compare editor
_- Open the compare editor for the instance state machine
_- Copy all non-conflicting changes from right to left
_- Save the compare editor
_- Open the state machine diagrams
_R The states and transitions from slave are added to the master state machines

8.4 dts0101040652

_- Move a graphical element on a diagram
_- Compare the diagram file with its history
_R No graphical data is listed in the compare window

_- Create a model with a package that contains two Activity actions
_- Add an activity edge between the two actions
_- Commit this to master on a git repository
_- Create a slave branch and delete the activity edge
_- Commit the deletion
_- Switch to master and rename one action
_- Move one of the action shapes
_- Commit the rename and move
_- Merge slave into master
_R Conflicts are found
_- Open the Merge Tool, Team > Merge Tool
_- Copy the name change over and save
_- Open the package diagram
_R The connector is not removed (for the activity edge) 
_- Reinitialize the Merge Tool using: Use HEAD
_- This time copy the removal of the edge and save
_- Open the package diagram
_R The connector is removed (for the activity edge)

_- Create a model with a package that contains two Activity actions
_- Commit this to master on a git repository
_- Create a slave branch and an activity edge
_- Commit the addition
_- Switch to master and add an activity edge
_- Commit the addition
_- Merge slave into master
_R Conflicts are found
_- Open the Merge Tool, Team > Merge Tool
_- Copy the outgoing change (addition from master) and save
_- Open the package diagram
_R The connector is not added from slave (for the activity edge) 
_- Reinitialize the Merge Tool using: Use HEAD
_- This time copy the addition of the edge from slave and save
_- Open the package diagram
_R The connector is added from slave (for the activity edge)

8.5 dts0101009924

_- In an existing state machine add two states with two transitions
_- Assign a new event to the two transitions
_- In another branch add two states and two transitions
_- Assign a new event to the two transitions
_- Merge branch one
_R Fast-forward
_- Merge branch two
_R No out of bounds exceptions are hit
_R Difference lines are drawn correctly

8.6 dts0101039702 and dts0101039330

_- Create a system with two packages, components and interfaces
_- Create a component with a provided interface under components
_- Create an interface under interfaces
_- Commit the system to a git repository
_- Create a branch slave
_- In the slave branch assign the provided interface to the interface and commit
_- Switch to master
_R The provided interface still has its connector text
_- Switch back to slave
_R The provider interface still has its connector text

_- Create a system with two packages, components and interfaces
_- Create a component with a provided interface under components
_- Create an interface under interfaces with an operation
_- Assign the provided interface to the interface
_- Delete the interface operation
_- Replace with previous local history on the component
_R The provided interface text is still present
 
8.7 Integrity problem markers

_- Create two classes under the same package
_- Create two associations under the package above
_- Set the key letters for each class as KEY
_R Two problem markers are created for each class indicating that another class
   in the same package has matching key letters
_- Set the association numbers to 1 each
_R Two problem markers are created for each class indicating that another
   association in the same package has a matching association number
_- Replace the package file with previous in local history
_R Only the two class problems remain

8.8 Use class name for key letter defaults

_- Create a new class
_R The key letters are set to the class name with spaces removed
_- Rename the class
_R The key letters are set to the new class name with spaces removed
_- Set the key letters to something other than the class name
_- Rename the class
_R The key letters are unchanged
 
8.9 State machine description tooltips not working

_- Add a description to the following elements:
  _- Transition
  _- Creation Transition
  _- State
  _- Enumerated Data Type
  _- Structured Data Type
  _- User Data Type
_- For each element hover over it in the graphics
_R Each one has the description shown in a tooltip

8.10 Remove git conflict annotations from the raw SQL data after viewing a model
     in xtUML compare

_- Create a model that has a single package and a class
_- Branch the model as slave
_- In slave add a class state machine and an instance state machine
_- Add two states and an assigned transition between them
_- Commit the changes
_- Switch to master
_- Add a class state machine and instance state machine to the class
_- Add two states and an assigned transition between them
_- Commit the changes
_- Merge slave branch
_R Conflicting changes are found
_- Open the Merge Tool, Team > Merge Tool
_- Open the compare editor for the class state machine
_- Copy all non-conflicting changes from right to left and save
_- Open the compare editor for the class change
_- Close the compare editor
_- Open the class state machine file, instance state machine file and class file
   in a text editor
_R The class state machine file and class file have no git conflict annotations
_R The instance state machine file still has the git conflict annotations
_- Reinitialize the Merge Tool using: Use HEAD
_- Open the instance state machine compare editor
_- Copy all changes from right to left
_- Close the editor without saving
_R The changes were not merged
_R The instance state machine file does not contain the git conflict annotations

8.11 Support jgit autocrlf=true configuration option in compare/merge 

_- Add the following configuration to Window > Preferences > Team > Git >
       Configuration > System Settings
_- core.autocrlf = true
_- Repeat the steps in 8.10 up to the first step that shows the merge tool
_R Model data is present in the left, right and ancestor panes

</pre>
End
---

